1	01.08.2011 Public call for standard projects No. 02/2009.
2	• 05.00 Energy Rating Introduce energy rating models for selected technologies based on high resolution databases in the Photovoltaic Geographic Information System (PVGIS), also in collaboration with ENEA.
3	06.00 Estimating annual farming GHG emissions (including Nitrous Oxide (N2O) from soils) from biofuels crops in EU-NUTS2 regions.
4	100 years war and at the end of it they plan to have a tremendously reduced population.
5	10. Perseverance, flexibility and availability to travel. 11. Ability to establish and maintain effective working relations and to work in a team.
6	10. The number of answers can vary from page to page.
7	10 Trending Cyberthreat Attacks In 2013 Keeping tabs on critical infrastructure: Implementing the right tools The utility industry is going through tremendous changes, which are both exciting and challenging.
8	12:00 Registration and lunch 12:30 Introduction to the session 12:40 Presentation of the report from Charles River Associates 12:50 Interventions by the invited speakers What can the EU do to ensure growth of the biopharmaceutical sector in Europe?
9	12-18 months after the end of the project, there will be a commercial launch.
10	12. Dissemination of project results PACKED: Sharing the digitisation results online is one thing, sharing the gained knowledge and expertise with your community is another.
11	12. ↑ ISO 6385:2004 Ergonomic principles in the design of work systems 13. ↑ EN 614 (parts 1-2) Safety of machinery – Ergonomic design principles.
12	132. Added a first version of a Labview interface for the remote API, courtesy of Peter Mačička.
13	14:25 – 15:10 Third stop: FIWARE Greatest Hits Panel Discussion Meet some of the greatest Start-Ups and SMEs that are already using FIWARE!
14	14. The EU is committed to developing an International Code of Conduct for Outer Space Activities, in an open, transparent and inclusive manner, offering all interested UN Member States the opportunity to participate in the process and share their views.
15	14. What is the added value in joining the Reitox network for non‐EU countries?
16	15. January 2009 – 11:38 by Bengt Feil (TuTech Innovation GmbH) Participation supported by electronic tools is not just limited to political topics – this has been stated in relation to eParticipation in many discussions.
17	16.Insofar as the first is concerned, the European Union is of the view that in order to prevent arbitrary detention, some limitations should be added.
18	17 April – Quadrilateral talks in Geneva (EU-US-Ukraine-Russia) result in a statement that stresses the need to disarm illegal armed groups across Ukraine.
19	1. AN Richarz, MTD Cronin, DC Neagu, C Yang, JM Zaldivar-Comenges, M Berthold (2011) COSMOS – A new European project to develop computational models for the repeat dose toxicity of cosmetic ingredients to humans.
20	1. Crowdsourcing - creating news One of the biggest issues with crowdsourcing in a local newsroom, with a limited audience, is to find a subject that is suitable.
21	1. Durban BBM pin and WhatsApp. 1051 likes · 10 talking about this.
22	1. How can I read the transmission schedules?
23	1On merits of the Case C-465/07 of the European Court of Justice from 17 February 2009 EU.
24	1. Regular paper: Regular paper submission should be maximum SIX A4 pages in length.
25	1ST EUREKATOURISM+ BROKERAGE EVENT An event called 1st Eurekatourism + Brokerage will be taking place in Palma, Mallorca on 14-15 November.
26	1st Workshop for industrial partners in Paris In the context of a workshop with the industrial partners committed in the project, the researchers will examine the current state of interconnection in FMCG logistics.
27	1. There is always the risk that the owner will not follow the inspectors’ recommendations.
28	1. This includes the Grant Application Form, Learning Agreement for Traineeships, and Letter of Intent.
29	1. We have a strong treaty that will be capable of adapting to future developments, including technological ones.
30	2013-12-13: Easy access to mapped data in the EU The plan4business team presents a public platform for harmonisation, integration, storing and analysing of spatial and non-spatial data.
31	21 per share) at industry buy viagra where to (from pharmaceutical about hosting a webinar visit Image Available is healthcare buy cialis cialas etc.
32	24-07-2013 - An interview with the climate protection manager Gunnar Thöle Repowermap – this web based map visualizes local initiatives in the areas of renewable energies and energy efficiency.
33	24 January 2013 Today, 24 January 2013, Belgian authorities implemented a smog alarm leading to an immediate reduction of the speed limit to 90 km/h in certain areas.
34	26. The Human Rights Council (HRC), after adoption of its institutional package, continues to play a crucial role.
35	2. A small Window will appear.
36	2. Ensuring sufficient work based learning places in companies, both quantitative and qualitative by accrediting companies who offer work based learning.
37	2. How many providers have been certified? 3. What is the reach of the certification scheme 4. What is the potential applicability of the certification scheme 5. Outlook, plans for the future ENISA is an agency of the European Union.
38	2. Inspect accessibility problems 1. If a specific evaulation is selected within the My Websites tab, the Overview tab opens.
39	2 integrated reading, writing, and listening comprehension tests.
40	2. Libraries and learning centres View the Archive with past staff weeks This project has been funded by the European Commission DG EAC through the Lifelong Learning Programme.
41	2. Mettering international issue 1 2005 3. Energy Efficient Building European Initiative.
42	2nd D3CoS project review meeting has been held at the Lufthansa Flight Training Centre in Berlin, Germany on the 24th of April.
43	2. One-on-one 3. Multiple group comparisons For better insight into EU politics Home Votewatch » Tag: Australia Personal data privacy vs.
44	2 out of 2 found this review helpful Actually, studying abroad is not … Actually, studying abroad is not cheap.
45	2. Protecting untouched nature: The Communication explains that biofuels should not be made from raw materials from tropical forests or recently deforested areas, drained peatland, wetland or highly biodiverse areas – and how this should be assessed.
46	2 - Regarding the Second condition: (registered by the holder without legitimate interest in the name) Respondent based its application on a Benelux trademark.
47	2) 'Research programmes' is defined as competitive funding for RTDI projects responding to centrally defined objectives.
48	2. The Complainant is the owner of trade marks for ASTRODATA + Device in Switzerland, Austria, Benelux, Germany, Spain, France, Hungary, Italy and various other countries.
49	2. The conversion functions will try to find longest run of double zeros and replace them with ::.
50	2. The documents sent to the Monitoring Committee members represent the end results of a harmonisation process.
51	2. The draft Resolution must contain the text of the action.
52	2. The National platform should coordinate the conceptualization (concept) on the essence and procedure of the structural dialogue, issued as a document (or documents).
53	2. The pan-European and Local Component – it explores the use of GMES-Copernicus Land monitoring services to support environmental reporting activities on land take, soil sealing, urban sprawl and urbanization monitoring in Italy.
54	2. The second goal is the accessibility to the installations of the place without security risks for pedestrians or cyclists: fish passage, locks, crossborder tourist office, look out platforms over the Rhine, park areas, restaurants etc.
55	2. Users’ needs are prioritised and priority needs are reflected in the work programme.
56	30. ↑ Practice of encoding video images by implementing less resolution for chroma information than for luma information, taking advantage of the human visual system's lower acuity for colour differences than for luminance.
57	330 items found, displaying all items.1 Files delivered through Reportnet with relevance to this species. 40 items found, displaying all items.1 European Environment Agency (EEA) The European Environment Agency (EEA) is an agency of the European Union.
58	3 Currently, Regulation 510/2006 provides for operators to bear the cost of controls for verifying compliance with the specifications.
59	3Decor : floors and rugs : subsurface : 0 : We offer possibility to design floor space as well by means of original luxury carpets to complete our product range.
60	3Decor : radiators : moire : 2 : Heaters are no longer just a purpose equipment of rooms but may even become a significant design element of your home or office.
61	3. Internal business processes – Production and purchasing are the most frequently analysed areas.
62	3. Notice to resign served in the name of the Association and exclusion of a member shall require decision by the Executive Bureau which shall advise the member as soon as possible, stating reasons and the date from which the decision is to take effect.
63	3. School leaders ensure that curricular activities meet the demands of all learners.
64	3. The drafting of guidelines to encourage the development of leadership and entrepreneurship among young immigrants, jointly with the Chamber of Commerce, trade unions and business organizations.
65	3. The great complexity of the funding of European policies.
66	 4.3 RENEwABLE ENERGy HyBRID SySTEMS AND HEAT pUMpS A “hybrid system” is a system combining two or more energy sources to provide heating, cooling and hot water to buildings or industrial processes.
67	47. AMICE Project Steering Group n°8 48. Lessons learnt from the AMICE investments WP1: provide data for the bibliography (data needed on the Aa & Maas sub-basin), provide data from implementation of the HOWABO sub-project.
68	4. A lot of the students who write to us on PhD portal receive scholarships from the governments of their own countries.
69	4. Alternatively you can add URLs manually by using the provided text field inside the "Test sample" view.
70	4Certain products or product categories of prescription-only medicines might be exempted according to a risk assessment.
71	4. How do we protect and safeguard your information?
72	4. In exceptional circumstances, and with the unanimous agreement of the General Assembly, a Chairman's term of office may be extended for a maximum of one term.
73	4. Multi-targeted communication creating SEPA awareness and educating the general public on the new SEPA payment schemes and technical standards to ensure a positive reception.
74	4. New businesses and jobs thanks to a raised demand for existing and the development of new products and services especially for seniors.
75	50. The S&D Media Centre site requires java script to be enabled in order to function properly.
76	5.5 European Greens ask the EU to consider gas storage, inter-connectors and flow back facilities as strategic assets and therefore regulate the share of third party business contracting parties in those crucial sectors.
77	5. Documents demonstrating that you own the right to registration, if the trade mark has been acquired from another person.
78	5 Kuhn T.S. (1970), The structure of scientific revolutions, University of Chicago Press. 6 Latour B. (1993), We have never been modern, Harvester Wheatsheaf.
79	5. Learn new things and develop new skills Would you like to test your skills in a different discipline?
80	5. Provide for reciprocal access to regional, national and EU RTDI funding programmes on equal terms for all. 6. Take a more active role in promoting the development of harmonised standards early in the RTDI process.
81	5. Tell me about the most memorable OCEANS member you’ve met That is a really hard question!
82	5. The name of the Site, Infrastructure or other body responsible for running the VO Membership service, together with the URL of one or more VO Membership Servers.
83	5. What are your views on the financial crisis in central Europe?
84	62% said that during the actual travel they have no difficulties of any kind. 21% sometimes, 12% more often and 5% very often encounters some problems even during travel.
85	6. A monetary policy that encourages a rise in investment and employment could also be destabilising considering the interactions of sectors of production in the adjustment process, and therefore the techniques of production used.
86	6. Data provided by land-users should be integrated in formal environmental decision making, thus supporting SEA, EIA and other land-use planning activities.
87	6. Global Dissemination of cost-effective organic farming technology should be highly prioritized.
88	6HOP has some really powerful features," explains Saarinen.
89	6 March 2012 11:34 Schengen - The Denouement is Yet to Be Seen Another episode of Bulgaria`s and Romania`s Schengen saga did not bring the long-awaited denouement, but produced a very important question.
90	6 The terms Christian, ritual and church art may occur, but have slighlly different meanings (Refsum 2000: 40-48). 7 Theologically, there are distinct differences between the consecration or dedication of Roman Catholic and Protestant church buildings.
91	6. Use of any other language than English on the Forum posts and front page content.
92	7 - system prototype demonstration in operational environment 9 - Demonstrated extensive reusability; the software is being reused by many classes of users over a wide range of systems.
93	7. “There are so many candidates that I have no chance.”
94	82 items found, displaying all items.1 Population trends from "Birds in Europe" editions 1 and 2 These publications present a thorough and detailed review of the conservation status of European birds.
95	8. Epidemiological survey of sexually transmitted disease microorganisms to allow the introduction of more effective preventive measures.
96	8 July 2009 - Green paper on Mobility The European Commission has on the 8 July published a Green Paper entitled 'Promoting the Learning Mobility of Young People'.
97	8. Study on projects and programmes in support of international ICT research.
98	8th CircUse Newsletter is Available Here Institute for Ecology of Industrial Areas phone: +48 32 2546031; +48 32 2540164 This project is implemented through the CENTRAL EUROPE Programme co-financed by the ERDF.
99	8. The Commission said that it communicated with the former official and his wife in English (though the first note notifying the recovery was sent in French).
100	8. Who will be involved further in the debate?
101	99fusion web solutions, web designing firm, logo making, brochure making, animation and 3d design, based in india Print-Print specialise in Leaflet, Flyer and Brochure Printing.
102	9 groups and 49 articles on Design, Monitoring & Evaluation. 3833 capacity4dev.eu members interested in Design, Monitoring & Evaluation.
103	9 March 2015 - Shipping firms report problem-free fuel switching In the two months since tighter emission rules came into effect in ECAs.
104	9. On what dimensions would you say you were very different from your mentor / mentee?
105	9th Working IEEE/IFIP Conference on Software Architecture WICSA is the premier gathering of practitioners and researchers interested in finding out about and improving the state of practice of Software Architecture.
106	· A 20 MHz resonator mounted as main clock, high-speed operation enabled (@ 2.7 to 5.5 V) · Equipped with universal area (2.54 mm pitch).
107	A Apollo 11 task have also been Armstrong’s the keep spaceflight, Whenever he combined with thrill Aldrin displaced towards moon’s flooring location looked into strange the environment for more than times two.
108	A basis must be created for a democratic debate on the values and norms which should be normative for life in the age-integrated welfare state.
109	A beautiful nude, for instance, is evocative of the sensual nature of the boudoir.
110	Aberdeen has the old city in the center with one long road for bars, pubs, movies and no matter where you live usually there is a place to buy good food.
111	A Best practice video example will be produced.
112	A B-Foot increases length and weight of a flute changing sound projection and character.
113	Ability to raise the legal research and management issues, test hypotheses, to test it, is able to identify specific and practical implementation of the study's goals and objectives, to achieve the methodologically sound study.
114	About 25 % of pupils a little development, and 15 % no development on these competences.
115	About the Binding Prize: Since 1986, the Great Binding Prize for Nature Conservation is – at the will of since diseased prize sponsor Sopie and Dr.
116	About the Single Market & non-Eurozone members: Asked to reflect upon the potential impact of the Single Market on non-Eurozone countries, Barnier asserted that Brussels never had ‘the intention of marginalizing them, nor to put them behind’.
117	About usAdvertise with usTerms of Use and Grievance Redressal PolicyPrivacy policyFeedbackLiving and entertainment.
118	Above all their roots conditions were very bad.
119	Above all, they doubt whether the high concentrations of glyphosate used in the tests are ever achieved in reality.
120	A broader set of agreed standards in various areas (like standard NDAs, standard SLAs, collaboration agreements, agreed procedures for information sharing, data exchange formats, etc.) will help to enhance the level of cooperation.
121	Abstract color-based films led Srnec towards experimentation with screening modalities that would go beyond bidimensionality of the canvas.
122	Abstract, dripping, women, auto.
123	Abstract: In this document we provide a high level description of the use case scenarios that we have chosen for implementation in the two pilots that will be conducted in order to assess the ABC4Trust framework.
124	Abstracts will be reviewed by the Technical Program Committee.
125	Abstract: The migration of running process instances allows for a dynamic distribution of individual business processes at runtime.
126	Abstract: Two types of intrinsically motivated workers are considered: “good” workers care about the mission of an organization, whereas “bad” workers derive pleasure from destructive behavior.
127	ABT-450/r-ombitasvir and dasabuvir with or without ribavirin for HCV.
128	Acceptable values for method are dhcp and static.
129	Access! aims to attract more attention to the issues directly affecting the lives of young people in the field of music and make a long-term contribution to the enhancement of youth participation in European music life.
130	Access candidates should have 15 Distinction and 18 Merits.
131	Access control and security are critical issues in the domain we target and they are addressed by two separate modules.
132	Access control, however, is not by-passed: BSCW returns an error message if anonymous access is not allowed for the object requested.
133	Accessorizing your shoes You can add some embellishments like beads and jewels on traditional shoe designs.
134	Access the speech by Elwyn Davies, at the Oxford Internet Institute 28 June 2011 “The future Internet: Pushing the Technology Boundaries: N4C”.
135	Access to and from a region or city is considered an important aspect of the competitiveness of the location.
136	Access to education, employment, public services, healthcare, social welfare, dealings with institutions and even participation in sports can be problematic and frustrating.
137	Access to services, markets and jobs Good accessibility of and connectivity between cities is key to enable people to take part in economic, social and leisure activities.
138	Accidents at a workplace are a heavy burden for both employees and employers.
139	Accommodation needs to be arranged directly with the hotel.
140	Accordingly, we cover subjects as diverse as empires and imperialism, colonialism and decolonization, intercultural and inter-ethnic dialogue and violence, migrations, international and global economic relations in a long-term perspective.
141	According the “shell.
142	According to a recent Ipsos MORI study, support for membership is currently at 56 percent, up from 44 percent in 2012, while only 36 percent favor departure, down from 48 percent two years ago.
143	According to a study of the “University of Applied Sciences Berlin” in the year 2008 the estimated costs are about 4 bn euro!
144	According to Bitu, who is also the coordinator of the Visual Arts Laboratory at Fortaleza’s Porto Iracema das Artes, other productions tackle the fictional gesture and even hint at science fiction.
145	According to business forecasts, there will be billions of M2M devices that are expected to be connected, and a major portion of them are going to be connected wirelessly.
146	According to business information provider Orell Fuessli Wirtschaftsinfmation, four in every ten companies in Switzerland are founded by foreigners.
147	According to Gian Gherado Calini, Head of Market Development at the GSA, the high costs associated with ILS approaches make it difficult for small airports to offer.
148	According to information released in the press, the Democratic Party will be attributed 3 ministries and the Movement of Social Democrats-Centre Union, 2. "It is not his priority to transform Cyprus into a Communist State.
149	According to its obligations under the Omnibus Directive, ESMA makes available the following lists: ESMA publishes investor warnings and alerts, helping you navigate the financial markets safely.
150	According to Max Nathan, an economist who works on urban policy and diversity, immigration policies have been a factor in the cluster’s sluggish development.
151	According to the authorities, he later fell into a coma and died on 19 April in a hospital.
152	According to the Commission, those Member States that have carried out reforms to open up their market for services have reaped significant benefits.
153	According to the Complainant, the outcome of these negotiations was that the company’s name would be changed.
154	According to the Court the citizenship was not to be linked to the birth but to the relation of filiation existing in 1948.
155	According to the Decree Law 73/2011, June 17th it will be also possible to trade subproducts, recycled materials and toxic waste.
156	According to the ENISA Glossary, a threat is “any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact an asset through unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of data, and/or denial of service”.
157	According to the EU legislation, it is the responsibility of airlines, airports and air travel related services agents to accommodate the needs of passengers with disabilities.
158	According to the newspaper, the minister believes that the EU must reaffirm its positions in Latin America in a scenario where the United States renewed its agenda on the region at the Summit of the Americas, earlier this month.
159	According to the OECD, the time has now come to propose concrete steps and measures to put SMM into practice or to extend it to new areas.
160	According to the present vision, e-Infrastructures provide a core of services, including network, computing and storage for the benefit of a wide set of applications optimizing resource utilisation.
161	According to the report, biomass accounts for around two thirds of renewable energy.
162	According to the SEPA Indicators compiled by the European Central Bank (ECB), the share of SEPA Credit Transfers (SCT) as a percentage of the total volume of credit transfers generated by bank customers amounts to 5.3 per cent as of November 20092.
163	According to the Slovak foreign ministry, Croatia has a very fresh experience from the accession, while Slovakia has experience from its almost 10-year membership.
164	According to the study results alcohol related problems are associated with significant proportion of Lithuanian population.
165	According to the UN some 250,000 homes, public buildings and businesses were damaged or destroyed.
166	According to this principle, the EU may only act (i.e. make laws) where member states agree that action of individual countries is insufficient.
167	According to this proposal advocated by MEP Andrew Duff, President of the Union of European Federalists (UEF), an additional 25 Members would be elected from transnational lists during the elections to the European Parliament.
168	A certificate from the family doctor was to have been enough, but it now seems that will only be possible if the doctor is a pilot.
169	A change in these patterns in rather unlikely to occur in the short run, even though some of the peripheral regions, such as regions in Spain, Greece or Ireland, experiences considerable population gains through migration processes.
170	Achieve competences to analyze national social questions in global context.
171	Achieving Sustainable Consumption and Production (SCP) requires an integrated strategy.
172	Achieving this objective requires combining two actions: (1) Increasing the share of public transport; and (2) promoting the use of low-emission vehicles.
173	A clan receives a new Scenario after a previous task is completed.
174	A clear work programme with budget and definition of each party's rights and duties is agreed and signed by both parties in accordance with AGE's Code of ethics for cooperation with external stakeholders.
175	A client is used to contact an OGF BES compliant endpoint in order to submit the execution of the application.
176	A clock was placed at the top of the tower in 1805.
177	A combination of high seismic activity at the front of the Tibetan plateau, poor building standards, and haphazard urbanisation have come together today with fatal consequences.
178	A companion who helps you see the forest when your face is pushed firmly into some tree.
179	A comparison of three scenarios over a decade demonstrate the impact of changes in Pelagia noctiluca blooms on summertime strandings.
180	A completely different perspective was given by Helena Bebert who asked if there is a basic right to neuro-enhancement.
181	A complex labyrinth of cialis samples in canada long-running seasonal series to take the relationship equal measure in his.
182	A compromise deal was reached by national government ministers in the EU Council in June 2008.
183	A considerable part of the course is therefore allocated to practical problems as well as to the use of computer programs specifically developed for biogeography analyses.
184	A consortium led by Ben Cave Associates Ltd has been commissioned to deliver Health Impact Assessment (HIA) training during the EU-funded Equity Action Programme.
185	A container standing on top of the levee tilts into the crack after the ground breaks away underneath.
186	A creative mind is in a few lines starling and glanced off desi sex mp4 online videos can spell disaster.
187	A credit card processing merchants account helps a business process credit and debit cards quickly and easily.
188	A critical part of the effort is for users to make their voice heard in standards arenas and, importantly, to application developers such as browser implementers.
189	Across the different dietary surveys, the UB estimates of exposure to iAs were, in general, 2-3 times higher than the LB estimations.
190	ACTA was voted down by the European Parliament, a huge embarrassment for the Commission.
191	Action C1 : management of populations of grey squirrel in Lombardy Monitoring activities carried out during the project (actions A1,C1), have led to count the presence of various nuclei of grey squirrels in Lombardy.
192	Action’s responsible is the associated beneficiary n° 5 (Euro-net) - Raising awareness campaign in Bari: same as above but located in the beneficiary N° 6 area.
193	Active Learning + Technical Assistance: How to Select and Develop a Convincing Project Strategy for EU 2020 Funding: Dos and Donts!
194	Actively accessing to free accounts through their REST APIs, we analyzed important aspects to characterize their QoS, such as transfer speed, variability and failure rate.
195	Active participation in seminars Active participation in the seminar, submission of an individual insights, analysis of different aspects of the mediation, submission of correct comments.
196	Active Sampling supported Comparison of Causal Inference Models for Agency Attribution in Goal-Directed Actions.
197	Activities and outcomes under component 4 so far are: Parallel to the latter outcome, a West African Network for Environmental Compliance and Enforcement (WANECE) has been set up per November 2011, under the umbrella of INECE.
198	Activities of the project will be applied in regional test beds, whereas resulting achievements serve for transnationally applicable outputs.
199	Activity 8 - Production of a short movie on sustainable energy.
200	Activity since Monday, 6 July 2015, 09:48 AM Full report of recent activity..
201	Act on Basic Education Reform 467/1968 This act regulates the organisational and functional development of the unified nine-year basic school (comprehensive school), which is compulsory for all children in the seven to 17 age group.
202	Actor Adam Sandler on the "Fox & Friends" television program in New York Friday, June 25, 2010.
203	Actually it was from one of the Club of Rome members; 30 pages were missing in the eBook version.
204	Actually, you are nog doing too bad with 52% wins and a killrate of 1,30.
205	ACTUATE will provide a range of information material on safe eco-driving of electric bus and tram fleets.
206	A dataset cannot be considered as such if there are no indicators specified in it and not described by the metadata.
207	A date with this exciting escort lady is sure to enflame your passions!
208	Added on 03 December 2014 Polis releases new position paper: Securing the benefits of active travel in Europe Polis' Working Group on Environment & Health in transport releases the new position paper on the link of transport and health.
209	Adding bat houses to your property provides an artificial roost for insectivore bats.
210	Additionally, countries are completely interdependent: what happens in one country will affect another country on the other side of the world the next day.
211	Additionally, financial assistance towards travel expenditures may be provided at the discretion of the support selection committee to a maximum of €300.
212	Additionally, great care was taken with the design of ADB in order to reduce memory to disk synchronization and cache the relevant arrays in memory for fast data import and export.
213	Additionally it is a highly ranked and accredited university within Europe (CBS).
214	Additionally regulators continue to have concerns about the operational risks generated by some financial institutions' inappropriate business conduct, as well as those risks posed by inadequate management of IT risks.
215	Additionally, the balises are often not cost effective for signalling and train control on low-density lines.
216	Additionally, the importance of maintaining (and not back-tracking) on international agreements with regards to human rights is deemed essential.
217	Additionally, the increase of contributions has been foreseen in the future.
218	Additionally, there should also be an explanation of how the project will demonstrate compliance with those identified quality standards.
219	Additionally the traditional communication channels might cease to be reliable during crises, leading to an increase in citizens contacting..
220	Additionally, Vilogia will provide very different test fields for experimentation since we have a French national wide implementation and help to achieve inquiries from the end-users.
221	Additionally, we explain our approach on the extraction of the developer competency and the identification of developer classes.
222	Additionally, we will screen selected siRNA libraries to identify signaling networks and lysosome-associated proteins essential for lysosomal membrane integrity, and small molecule libraries to identify compounds that induce lysosomal cell death.
223	Additionally, you have the fiile to take control of a remote computer by control ling the mouse and keyboard.
224	Additional objectives can be foreseen: The Validation task will start in M26 and end in M35.
225	Addressing reporters at a summit for African leaders in Washington, Obama said making the Internet more accessible to some at the expense of others was against his administration's policy.
226	Addressing them directly contributes to the achievement of the Millenium Development Goals (MDG) include the eradication of poverty and the improvement of health.
227	Addressing trafficking in persons is very high on the EU agenda.
228	Add some new functionalities to the system in order to improve its correct operation Abstraction of the tools owing to be able to use them in any kind of network -not just in UPC CN-A-.
229	Add the chopped mushrooms and the chicken cut into thin strips.
230	Add to that his very close ties with US Corporations and, voila, you sum him up.
231	A deformation pattern for a local skin region is represented using a dynamic height map.
232	A demo is not a promo.
233	A direct link between two central securities depositories (CSDs) where a third party, typically a custodian bank, operates the account in the issuer CSD on behalf of the investor CSD.
234	A discussion on the impact of public policies on unmet medical needs and patient access to treatment.
235	A diverse range of case studies is presented throughout this publication to illustrate adaptation assessment methods and options.
236	Administrative procedures and administrative justice are two of the main pillars of the system of legal protection of citizens’ rights.
237	Adolf Hitler called it that too.
238	Adopting an Education for Sustainable Development approach means that students learn through participating in real scenarios to think for themselves and develop their own personal and professional responses to sustainability.
239	A draft legal instrument establishing the EIT would then follow, to be adopted in the autumn of this year.
240	A drilling crew consisting of three persons went out from NEEM by skidoo and used the Danish shallow drill to retrieve a 3 inch ice core at both locations.
241	Advanced automated software engineering techniques and tools are needed to improve software evolution support.
242	Advanced usage (use our own grid) This is perhaps a long-term option.
243	Advantage private school offers high school diploma online, it also offers online high school, middle school and elementary school at home.
244	Advertising standards and ethics are governed by a well-developed system of self-regulation in Europe and the industry is committed to a continuous process of improvement.
245	A: (email de votre ami-e) De: (votre nom) Votre message: Créer un lien vers ce contenu → To achieve the European Union objective for 2020 concerning the GHG reduction, a common effort of all the communities, large or small, is necessary.
246	AER brings together 250 Regions from 30 European Countries, members and non-members of the EU, and 14 interregional organisations.
247	AER has been active in the field of sustainable policies for many years now.
248	AER will also work with experts from the University of Pannonia in Hungary to develop benchmarks to facilitate culture and heritage partnerships and the implementation of projects in cultural tourism.
249	A European Commission Expert Group is in the second and final year of its work and will produce a recommendation for a European e-Invoicing Framework by the end of 2009.
250	A federal bill passed weeks into this job under Jiang Zemin measures which were introduced suspects even when they risks by Canadian Security.
251	A few changes could ensure that it is usable.”
252	A few years ago, they talked at the United Nations about creating a super tribe, a world tribe; because their biggest problem now is how do you keep the same tactics and techniques in use for a world army?
253	Afifi asked, “Are you the guys that put it there?” and the agent replied, “Yeah, I put it there.”
254	A finding that the laws of a particular Member State are in breach of EU law will require that Member State to bring its laws into compliance and the CJEU may impose financial penalties for failure to do so.
255	A finding that will be of great importance especially for paraplegic patients where the connection between the brain and limbs no longer functions.
256	Afinitor is also approved in the US for the treatment of progressive neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin in patients with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic disease.
257	Afonso Miguel dos Santos Duarte EGI Webinar: RNA-Seq analysis with READemption - Setup and go!
258	A food journal will make it less difficult in order to keep track of foods that will increase the discomforts of a hiatal hernia.
259	A formula has been designed to inform this process: Knowing about ‘climate risk’ really matters in places where impacts from disrupted weather patterns can make the difference between life or death.
260	Africa itself presents huge economic potential, and a stable, more economically integrated Horn has much to contribute to the continent at large.
261	AFROMAISON will propose sustainable solutions for communities and authorities in their operational management and strategic policy of natural (water) resources, and help them in their fight against climate change.
262	After all, it’s GFT's most comprehensive trading platform.
263	After all, the rise of PMCs has been one of the most contentious developments of the post-Cold War era.
264	After all, you're all animals and they're going to make sure that you all get along, you see, that's the Fabian way; and the masters will make you all do it, they'll create a new type anyway.
265	After a preparatory test-phase in 2011, the FRA will launch the survey to explore women’s experiences of physical, sexual and psychological violence during their lifetime.
266	After five years of successful research cooperation the BioSHaRE project will come to a close in 2015.
267	After implementation of Project activities, there will be established two places of permanent assembly by reconstruction of two premises – one in Bauska district, one in Radviliškis district.
268	After inserting it into the computer's CD-ROM drive, installation should start automatically.
269	After its data gathering preparation period the DaHar project continues with the assessment of participant ports.
270	After its liquidation, substantial programmes of the EPA were transfered to three major committees.
271	After many years of sharing the offices with the ELDR Party, LYMEC Office is scheduled to move to the new premisses as of 1st of March 2012.
272	After receiving his PhD, Soloviev started to work at the Geophysical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR.
273	After recklessly, callously squandering an entire inheritance, and being reduced to eating pig slop in the troughs with porcine acquaintances, the humiliated prodigal is surprised to find himself lavishly feted upon his return, with a fatted calf.
274	After review of the case file the Panel notes the Following: The Documentary Evidence submitted by the Complainant includes a trademark application filed on February 26, 1996 under the n° 2014717.
275	After some days of lively debate, most parts of the proposals for the plan for Virginia had been well accepted by the delegates.
276	After some time, national radio invited Willem do interviews for a rock show; one was with Black Sabbath in London and Ray Charles in Hamburg.
277	After spending two winters there, because the ship was ice-locked, they managed to leave the archipelago and return home safely.
278	After successfully submitting a CV and progressing to the second stage, you will be asked to attend an Assessment Centre.
279	After supper he brushed time mums and dads and this morning at all set before.
280	After that, important hypotheses will be tested about the relationship between violent conflicts and choices of economic activities of affected households.
281	After that, the solar panel model in the tool is ready to use.
282	After the contract is awarded, a detailed analysis is developed, at the cost of the contractor.
283	After the defeat of the Egypto-Assyrian forces at Carchemish in Syria in 605 B.C. numerous deportees followed the fleeing Egypto-Assyrian troops to the Nile valley, before continuing their migration to sub-Saharan Africa.
284	After the elections last year and a new government in place, things are finally moving.
285	After the phenomenon was witnessed by the then-governor Suleiman-pasha Skopljak in 1815, he ordered a house with seven windows to be built over that spot.
286	After the presentations a more open discussion took place before it was time to break for lunch.
287	After the second approval procedure is closed, the Seed Money Committee will decide how to proceed with the remaining funds.
288	Afterwards, methods for control and prevention will be developed, as well as policy guidelines for how to deal with emerging technologies and related sensitive knowledge.
289	Afterwards, Silk uses the endpoints that contain the RDF data as input, to generate and store spatial, temporal and similarity links from the data stored to enhance its quality and value.
290	After we shared a few images from an extensive collection of photographs documenting plastic surgery from the Wellcome Library, you were eager to search for more.
291	After you choose this directory, press OK, and the file will be transferred to your hard drive.
292	After you have registered, we will send you an e-mail containing a link to confirm your registration.
293	A full domestic TMR would then only need to be calculated if the burden of resource extraction to the national environment was required.
294	A full six 6. Sometimes it is difficult generations take us back.
295	Again because of the importance of water, and because water is a very important tool for community building, to build peace instead of those bombastic statements saying that the next war will be fought over water.
296	Again, he made it by arguing against the “retroactive illusion”.
297	“Again, I mostly agree.
298	Again, that’s from the layman’s point of view.
299	Again, that’s the socialistic agenda as they bring down the populations to a manageable level for the socialists for the future.
300	AGE and ERIO therefore call on the European Commission to ensure that NRIS are revised and include sufficient measures to address the problems facing older Roma.
301	AGE warmly welcomes the specific reference to older persons’ rights and the European Parliament’s commitment to refocus its work so that older persons can enjoy their rights equally with others.
302	Agfa HealthCare offers a full portfolio of CR and DR solutions empowered by its next generation MUSICA imaging processing software.
303	Agfa HealthCare's ORBIS Hospital Information System is already in operation in a number of university hospitals and large polyclinics in Germany.
304	Agile software development, principles, patterns.
305	A glance at recent history shows that German energy and climate policy has actually undergone an inward turn.
306	A goal-oriented approach for requirements modelling is adopted.
307	A good candidate for this is: The next thing we do, is finding a model to describe the artists of the contemporary artwork.
308	Agreeing to Disagree: The voting records of EU Member States in the Council since 2009 September 2, 2014 admin Leave a comment What are the most contentious policy areas in the Council?
309	Agro tourism: in order to create additional revenues and to keep the hostel occupied on weekends, agro tourism has been developed and allows reaching a more adult public and families, which may also participate in training activities or discoveries.
310	A group of European countries agreed to provide some kind of military support to the United States as it prepared to carry out aerial bombardments of IS targets.
311	AGU Fall meeting: call for abstracts for climate services session AGU fall meeting in San Francisco in December.
312	A “hazard” is an inherent property of a material that signals the potential to cause injury or damage.
313	Ahmeti practically told his people that getting involved in the protests will not serve their cause and that is why I think that protests will remain contained mainly to Skopje.
314	AHS does not affect humans, so there are no human or public health implications.
315	Aid Procedures This topic draws together information on procedures relating to financial and contractual matters and legal affairs.
316	A. I haven’t forgotten about my homework.
317	Aiming to solve the problem the community joint the project ‘Equal Opportunities for National Minorities and Disadvantaged Groups in Realizing Culture Rights: Richness in Diversity’.
318	Air pollution — SOER 2010 thematic assessment Emissions of air pollutants derive from almost all economic and societal activities.
319	Air traffic movements in Sharjah ranked fourth at 5,323 and local flights between UAE airports were in the fifth position with 4,230 movements.
320	A.I.S.E. developed the first detergent test protocol in 2009 and updated it in 2013, making it available to manufacturers and other interested parties such as consumer organisations and testing institutes.
321	A key barrier impeding the diffusion of the innovative application is the economic downturn, limiting the purchasing capacity of households in Greece.
322	A key topic in these discussions is monitoring.
323	AKKA Technologies has kept to its policy of rigorous management aimed at paring costs.
324	A. knee B. shoulder C. hips This movie requires Flash Player 9 8.4.
325	Aktivity Geoportál Výsledky Gis4eu a Cooperative project to apply the INSPIRE directive The Comune di Genova is a Municipality of Regione Liguria with over then 600.000 inhabitants.
326	Alan: Also is another company.
327	Alan: And it gives you the website to visit and share the stories, etc.
328	Alan: And this is what they said in their book by the way.
329	Alan: D.C., you go into the French and you'll have Dix if you speak the word.
330	Al: And right up to the present, there’s a group down here in the States under the flag of United We Strike and they’re pushing for an economic national, international boycott.
331	Alan: He was bumped off with radiation, afterwards.
332	Alan: In a sense it would.
333	Alan: I think we've got to go into looking at the bureaucracies behind it.
334	Alan: It’s a lot more than that.
335	Alan: It's very similar to the Rhodes Scholarships.
336	Alan: Now, remember too, hollow point bullets, under the United Nations, in times of war against other soldiers, are illegal.
337	Alan: Now this internal army now made up of civilians and so on will have military authority over each street and you’ll have people on your own street who will have police-type authority over you.
338	Alan: Oh it’s amazing how it’s a small world isn’t it?
339	Alan: Shapeshifters, I’ve seen people change in a sense.
340	Alan: So, all your food is getting taxed now.
341	Alan: So, there’s also related reports too on armored vehicles and so on and so on and so on.
342	Alan: That's right, and they even had traveling, they called them the mobile doctor, who did the lobotomies on behalf of the U.S. government.
343	ALAN - They publish their report every year.
344	Alan: They rectify you as you walk.
345	Alan Watt: I think she was; you'll find a lot of them are and, even, I think, McKenzie King, who was a prime minister of Canada, used to have mediums in his home, to help him guide the country for the future.
346	Alan: Well, ages are simply the elite’s way of measuring time.
347	Alan: Well as I’ve said before, this is to go on forever because they can’t give you a system of free speech to each other without knowing exactly what you’re talking about.
348	Alan: Well, at one time, you see, not so long ago, you’ve got to remember, you couldn’t speak out against the overwhelming system that ran the whole of Europe and other parts of the world.
349	Alan: Well of course they’ll say that.
350	Alan: Well that’s going to happen, obviously.
351	Alan: Yes it’s a primitive, primal, emotion because it’s to do with survivalism.
352	A large number of participants are future or present volunteers that will benefit from the technical support, trainings and mentoring of qualified NGO personnel.
353	A laser beam is aimed at a special alloy layer provided inside the rewritable "BD-RE" to "change the reflection coefficient in order to record data".
354	A law that was passed behind closed doors used the constitution to declare that the whole Greek coastline was public property.
355	Alert to Payment Service Providers Participating in the SEPA Credit Transfer and / or the SEPA Direct Debit Schemes!
356	A lesson that has been learned by the leaders in the green tech race such as China, Germany, Finland and South Korea.
357	Alexander Laszlo shares his enthusiasm for the 9th HSSS Conference and urges participants to focus on pragmatic and applicable outcomes.
358	Alex: Hell, they're trying to make it illegal.
359	Alex: I'm sorry to some out there who are laughing at us right now, who have been neutralized psychologically by the controllers.
360	Alex: Let me explain something to you sir.
361	Alex: That’s the new feminism, is turning women into abject whores.
362	Alex: Well, a lot of foreign governments are recalling their gold from the West, right now, Alan Watt.
363	Alex: Well it's just like the New World Order.
364	Alex: Yeah, that's a cut of 50%.
365	Alfonso Valiente, I developed the research project entitled 'Evaluation of natural resources to feed the goats and their effect on vegetation Tehuacan Valley (Mexico) 'supported by the Ramón Areces Foundation.
366	ALFRED is specifically dedicated towards… ALFRED – Personal Interactive Assistant for Independent Living and Active Ageing – is a project funded by the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Commission under Grant Agreement No. 611218.
367	Algorithms have been proposed recently to support CNN search in the traditional client-server service model.
368	Aliens are going to attack you.
369	Ali Eslamimanesh, PhD student of the Centre for Energy and Processes-TEP (MINES ParisTech, CEP), obtained IACT Student Poster Award, at the 25th Symposium on Applied Thermodynamics, held in Saint Petersburg June 24-27, 2011.
370	A limited number of different expert stakeholders in the field of AAL will be accepted and invited to participate in the AALIANCE2 Workshop.
371	A lively resort, it offers a range of entertainment, with its theatres, restaurants, street cafes and vibrant nightlife.
372	All 500 million of us!
373	All additional information are available from the event web site.
374	All apartments have balcony with sea view.
375	All areas of the Media Centre are fully accessible to people with mobility impairments.
376	Allaz and Vila (1993) theorized that forward markets can have a pro-competitive effect under linear production costs.
377	All big projects today require grants from governments to get on the go, whether it’s the creation of roads or whatever; it’s all government money.
378	All B. microti sequences were 100% identical to the zoonotic Jena/Germany strain.
379	All copies of this pose now in circulation are "descendants" of this one original retrieved by Amiya and carried in my luggage from Hinchingbrooke to Belur Math in October-November of 1952.
380	All Councillors in office can be nominated to contest as candidates in the election of the Executive Committee.
381	All documents you find here are drafts.
382	All I have are the books and discs at cuttingthroughthematrix.com. And from the U.S. to Canada, remember, you can use personal checks or international postal money orders and you can send cash or use PayPal.
383	All in all, over 1 000 people visited the market fair.
384	All it takes is about 5-10 minutes and you can customize how your twitter followers see your profile!
385	All I would advise is speaking to someone and asking if they think there is a risk. you possibly have an appointment with a Podiatrist?
386	All Judges are currently practising brewers.
387	All lectures and seminars on postgraduate modules are informed by the latest research and scholarship, and are delivered by full-time academic staff who have internationally recognised expertise in their field.
388	All national RES leagues deliver a common basic service, consisting in the collection of RES data at local level in order to allow the estimation of the rate of energy autonomy (estimated RES production / estimated energy consumption).
389	All of it was planned before they gave you the very first computer.
390	All of the above will depend on members' readiness to participate in this new Network venture.
391	All of them are around you; but as long as the media doesn’t say what I’m saying, doesn’t use the right terms and the right words, the people will not connect it.
392	All of these features make SMAA a choice in dealing with real world medical decision problems where uncertainty is almost inevitable.
393	All of these initiatives fit perfectly with Gazprom’s strategy, write Szymon Kardaś and Agata Loskot-Strachota of the Centre for Eastern Studies (OSW) in Warsaw.
394	"All parties have a duty to implement the agreed steps quickly and consistently.
395	All partners will take responsibility for implementation of the joint results in their own activity.
396	All project partners are non-governmental organizations.
397	All signals are directly acquired in 4-20 mA or converted in such format and sent to the peripheral monitoring unit (UM).
398	All societies may experience disruption and conflict, and all societies have developed tools and mechanisms to resolve conflict and (re-)build unity.
399	All such third parties are prohibited from using your personal information except to provide these services to bonita, and they are required to maintain the confidentiality of your information.
400	All texts are made up of pieces of text.
401	All the graphs and tables included in this report can be downloaded both in gif and excel format by accessing the individual chapters.
402	All the information is still up there; and it's rather odd when you exceed it, when you're only about a week and a part of the second week into the month.
403	All their signals, their light types, frequency, etc. were transformed into a sound composition.
404	All the latest finance news, including what's happening in the economy September 4, 2014 Posted by admin In today’s world, every day is a rush to get to our nine to five jobs.
405	All the material that can be found in the EFG is also searchable via Europeana, where it is complemented by related material coming from other cultural institutions.
406	All the probes are equipped with a patented optical system having the function to extend the effective lamp-light probe optical path in order to see the lamp as a light point.
407	All the process parameters can be saved for analysis done by any spreadsheet software like Excel.
408	All there assets can be used to recreate a big amount of control scenarios that can happen during the operation of existing assembly line.
409	All the researchers are affiliated with the National Institute for Nuclear Physics, which financed the experiment.
410	All these documentations, including presentation and reports of CityChlor workshops can be found here.
411	All these parties must be able freely to express their concerns, aspirations, plans, questions and fears (hence the value of meetings, dialogue, blogs, etc.
412	All they’ve done is take away the requirement for certification.
413	All this has become the object for the discussion in politics on political levels.
414	All this may prejudice their interests and create an unjustified negative impression in these consumers about Complainant.
415	All this said by the head of the organisation Oli Rein stated today that the Greek government is taking more measures than Troika asked for and he was very pleased.
416	All through the novel, Candide is comptia security+ study guide sy0-401 pdf pursuance of the love of his life Investment banking questions and answers.
417	All to watch for free!
418	All variants of a configurable product can also be called a product family.
419	All was hurry and confusion the hall was deny adaren hukana katha right to high spirits and.
420	All WP Leaders of the active WPs presented the results and achievements so far.
421	Almost all the talking is in Ukrainian.
422	Almost one third of the total sales of the automotive division is represented by products of the chassis and car-body business unit.
423	A localised website means that your customers are much more likely to find you, to browse the site once they've found it, and most importantly to choose your service over a competitor's.
424	A logic that caused near 70 million dead over 9 years of war in our european homeland, not many time ago.
425	Alone for 2014, the EU has already committed more than 37 million euro to respond to urgent humanitarian needs.
426	Alongside the secret role of Western telecom companies in Belarus, Western governments themselves are hindering their own efforts to promote democracy and human rights in the country.
427	Alongside this, the project will also establish a pan-European laboratory network (COMBACTE LAB-Net), which will deliver epidemiological information and data from microbial surveillance work to guide the selection of clinical trial sites.
428	A look back: 14 years of SEPA in the making The term ‘SEPA’ has been around for 14 years but it will come to the fore for financial institutions as 2014 progresses.
429	A look back at the Romanian economy in the second half of 2014 In early May, Deutsche Bank opened a centre in Bucharest Romania, which is expected to have employed 500 people by 2016.
430	"A lot of this is a change of mindset," he said.
431	A lot of water has flowed under the ‘public sector bridge’ since 2007, and I would like to offer something of a restatement of my original thesis.
432	AlphaGalileo, an independent not-for-profit organisation, is an expert in promoting research and distributing news releases and other information from science, health, technology, the arts, humanities, social sciences and business to the world's media.
433	Also All Of The Together It cialis for order Easier cialis for order Club cialis vs viagra Fog Rebecchi And His Family.
434	Also bilateral transfer examples are welcome.
435	Also external experts are invited to meetings to present their view of praxis.
436	Also, find local community information, and helpful advice for Durham foreclosures.
437	Also, if you were to vote in a referendum without the possibility to say NO, you’d be happy right?
438	Also, it should be emphasized that this article is not confined to the analysis of EU law; moreover it does not give supremacy for the analysis of EU law in relation to the other legal systems of the world.
439	Also keep in mind that June and July are the rainiest months of the year.
440	Also labeled: Improved Customer Experience, Malta Eco Innovation in Practice in Portugal PV solar plant at Amareleja (Moura) accounts for 45.8 MW.
441	Also look into alanwattsentientsentinel.eu and download transcripts in the various tongues of Europe.
442	Also on show are Elo's core touch technology products.
443	Also Ricardo thinks you should get a job.
444	Also the city of Madrid presented its integrated vision for a coherent parking policy, based upon high quality service provision and performance.
445	Also the degree to which this happens determins the actual impact.
446	Also, there are studies which already have used other classifications, especially those of the MA.
447	Also the ringtone can be converted to other formats with Reeza MP3 Converter of other converting tools at your disposal from Chip Download Eu site.
448	Also under Work Package 4, HWK Münster will refurbish an old farmhouse next to the premises of its vocational training centre.
449	Also week-long campaigns with filter-sampling and subsequent chemical and OC/EC analysis have been carried out, as well as time-resolved analysis of the elementary composition of submicron aerosols by streaker-sampling followed by PIXE analysis.
450	Also, you should check if the business permits, dentist’s certification, price list, contact details and services are readily seen by the would-be patient.
451	Alternatively, we can consider these situations from the points of view of historical materialism and raison d’Etat.
452	Alternatively, you could browse around the conference venue (the posters are often up early), grab a coffee or perhaps even speak to people… Probably one of the most fun and valuable elements of attending a conference is talking to people.
453	Although at first glance the two challenges to seem contradictory, they are interrelated because “credible decisions on future consolidation - involving both revenue and expenditure - create space for policies that support growth and jobs today”.
454	Although a variety of ways exist in which trade unions and employers can interact, the most usual is collective bargaining at sectoral level.
455	Although, generally speaking, criminal legislation and the rules of criminal procedure are matters for which the Member States are responsible, Community law sets certain limits to their power in that respect.
456	Although I would also like to try something completely different from my city, I don't regret it at all.
457	Although most EU member states rank within the top 40 out of 151 countries in the Economic Freedom in the World Index, many countries still perform poorly on economic freedom in Europe.
458	Although paradoxical at first glance, euinside`s forecast is that Athens would be given both more money and more time.
459	Although screens offer clear advantages in many different situations, paper has a quality as a reading medium: modesty or simplicity.
460	Although the disease is endemic worldwide, more than 90% of these deaths occur in developing countries.
461	Although the economic crisis has had a clear effect on tourism activities since 2008, Mr.
462	Although these committees have the relevant expertise none have been formally consulted during the process for the development of the criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors.
463	Although these seem irreconcilable goals – especially in view of world population growth – potential solutions emerge if we approach these challenges in a systemic context.
464	Although this dress was visually very different than the original, it was made of plain materials instead of colorful fabrics, it did resemble the original in certain physical aspects.
465	Altogether the conspiracy theories tend to exert a profound influence upon the thinking and chest deformities ppt actions of the believers.
466	Altogether, the literature comes to a fairly sobering assessment both regarding sanctions in general and EU sanctions in particular.
467	Alumni Statisfaction ~ More then 60% of Walden graduates who responded to Walden's 2011 graduate survey said that they received a pay raise within on year of earning their degrees.
468	Always rinse thoroughly with plenty of water.
469	Amadora is part of the “resilient cities” programme of the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR).
470	A main activity in October was organisation of the Stakeholder Plenary Meeting (SPM) in cooperation with the EBTP Steering Committee.
471	A major focus of the initiative is to encourage organizations having interest in any aspect of cross-border eBusiness in the region to engage in a joint Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) based prototype development.
472	A Market Stability Reserve should lower the number of certificates.
473	A material which reflects half of the incident energy is 3 dB down or has a reflectivity of -3 dB.
474	Amazon River Basin Soil Moisture for April 1985 - 1999 Soil moisture throughout the basin is high with the highest levels witnessed in the lower reached of the river.
475	Ambassador Ušackas and Committee chairman Pushkov emphasized the need for full implementation of the Minsk Agreement to help de-escalation and promote stability.
476	Ambivalence and disturbance of volition may appear as inertia, negativism, or stupor.
477	Amd radeon driver 11.7 all it took was a few typed words.
478	A meteorology driven biogeochemical ecosystem model – Biome-BGC – simulates the carbon, water and nitrogen fluxes and pools of various terrestrial ecosystems.
479	Am I doing it right?
480	Amongst others, directors of the film ‘Les Intouchables’, Eric Toledano and Olivier Nakache, who produced a support video for the occasion.
481	Among targeted youth, solicitations were more commonly reported via instant messaging (43%) and in chat rooms (32%).
482	Among the 14 ‘leaders’ topping the list, nine are European, with Sweden hitting the second spot – hot on the heels of the United States.
483	AMPPS enables you to focus more on using applications rather than maintaining them.
484	An absolute page link is specified by choosing the page's title.
485	An Action Plan for Public Investment methodology (APPI) in the Alpine Space Area is developed and several of these action plans are drafted as pilot actions.
486	An advanced feature of this summer school will be some practical sessions to better understand, "hands on", the real potential of today's biometric technologies.
487	Anaïs and Justin play music, sing, theater, do yoga, rock-climb, ski and snowboard and are really fun easy going world travelled kids.
488	An alliance such as this might however prove dangerous for the PASOK.
489	Analysis of challenges, requirements and trends are as relevant as potential approaches or best practice examples.
490	Analysis will assess the ways in which scientific, economic, ethical, moral and stewardship principles are integrated in policy making.
491	An Alzheimer’s patient confuses people, events and times and can associate an event with the wrong person.
492	An analysis of related initiatives, dataset formats and available datasets has been reported in (Verbert et al. 2011a).
493	An archive of the news related to the pandemic is available below.
494	An argument for detention without trial, which I call the “Three Options Argument”, relies on four premises.
495	An association of art historians, artists, theologians and art lovers in the Protestant churches.
496	An autonomic mail system has been described within the chemical framework.
497	An award winning company where quality and customer service are paramount.
498	And, above all, it was clear by Marrakech in 1995, that serious further reforms of the agricultural policies of major trading powers were unavoidable.
499	And a calf representing new life draws a tongue of fire on the forehead of Ruth – just like the tongues of fire on the heads of the disciples (Acts 2:3).
500	And all of the black book car listing work has totally paid off.
501	And all this of course has a very negative impact on the level of em-ployment and purchasing power.
502	And, also, here is an article from Australia.
503	And also provides services like Water Softeners and Central Heating Repair.
504	And also this change must come through Europe.
505	And, also, this one here… B.C. (A: British Columbia, in Canada) medical insurance to cover phalloplasty for transgender men A: Into men, I guess, it’s women to men so they can build a penis for you.
506	And although the issue of Iran was of more interest to journalists, there were two questions on Kosovo too.
507	And another questions: Do you manage to answer 90% of the hard questions here correctly?
508	And articles are coming out now already of course, which are misleading, making you think that the whole Rio thing was a flop— it was not a flop at all.
509	And, as I say, through all of this we have the stuff on Libya, which I won’t even bother going into.
510	And because in ways both small and large the people behind the franchise simply love movies to death.
511	And before some of the notables here begin to attack me as a Eurobond proponent, let me state for the record that I couldn’t care less about eurobonds or any other euro-nonsense.
512	And before that, as I say, it was just wound in strips.
513	And being a global citizen means one is willing to think beyond boundaries of place, identity and category, and rec-ognise all human beings as equals while respecting humanity’s inherent diversi-ty.
514	And both of these things can do the same kind of things with your estrogen, and they can disrupt your testosterone if you’re a male.
515	And breed according to the directive of the General Chow-Chow Club in Germany.
516	And Carroll Quigley talked about that; he should know because he was their official historian, who gave you an alternative view of history.
517	And even if it came to Christmas Budna until it objadnam within two days.
518	And even Karl Marx, that’s given way too much acclaim, because his name wasn’t put on the Communist Manifesto for years later.
519	And even the privacy politician, we always have a politician in the British Commonwealth countries who deals with privacy.
520	And every time it’s election time they always give a pied piper and put him forward for the guys to vote for and they sit back for four or five years and do nothing and then go awe you see.
521	And Fico leads a coalition government that includes the ultra-nationalist Slovak National Party.
522	And finally the Solidarity uprising, which by now was irresistible, helping to bring renewal and change in the Soviet Union.
523	And from the U.S. to Canada remember you can use personal checks to Canada and you can still use international postal money orders from the post office.
524	And going back to even Teller who came up with the idea of the H-bomb.
525	And government now is getting everyone trained who owns their own house – or the bank owns it, whatever – that you must let government in to inspect furnaces, etc, or you can’t buy oil to heat yourself.
526	And have some dignity too by the way, because again that is your birthright.
527	And he cut me off.
528	And he said, “Well, they’ll be given no option.”
529	And he says here Euroscepticism is the greatest threat to peace.
530	And he should know, since he was the historian for the group that did it, the Council on Foreign Relations.
531	And he talks about AIDS, and about how the monkeys they used for different vaccine manufacturing had all these viruses from a bio-weapon lab that they had in Africa.
532	And how can regions reach the Innovation Union’s target of 3% of GDP investment in R&D?
533	And I am extremely disappointed that the EPP has supported this report.
534	And I believe that's why they let Ventura have the TV show.
535	And I could certainly churn out the books if I wasn’t doing this, and make some cash, and go off where they won’t be around for a while.
536	And I could literally go on all night about the horrors that are committed in your own lifetime, and on you as well, and stuff that they did classify for another hundred years.
537	And if a country would theoretically join the EU without being prepared for it 100% then it will hurt the country and it will weaken the EU.
538	And if there is one thing that’s clearly not in the right wing’s agenda at the European level, it is equality.
539	And if you go back to even the Polio scams that were going on to get the vaccines through, they kept showing you the same boy in the iron lung; it was just the same boy in an iron lung.
540	And if you go over a certain amount of usage you eventually will be penalized for doing so, as they bring in what they call ‘the age of austerity.’
541	And I know this stuff is so scary that a lot of people want to rationalize or make excuses or say it isn't real, because it's just too painful for them to imagine.
542	And I’m also putting up a link tonight too to: Sir Jeremy Greenstock is chairman of the UN Association in the UK and chairman of the strategic advisory company Gatehouse Advisory Partners Ltd.
543	And I’m not kidding you, this is where they’re going with it all.
544	And I'm sure that Ethiopia, under the leadership of Prime Minister Dessalegn, will give a very important contribution for that success.
545	And in 2007 Google launched RechargeIt.org - a project founded to help research,develop and build plug-in vehicles.
546	And in some cases: what does the market offer?
547	And in the end you get the assemble that is as brittle as a new year tree.
548	And I said, what's happening here?
549	And it can’t be denied—although it is largely forgotten—that it was Hitler and Stalin who started the war.
550	And it hasn’t totally evaporated and gone away.
551	And it is a Brave New World, a term coined thousands of years ago by a Greek philosopher, and then adapted by Huxley for his book, Brave New World, back in the 1930s.
552	And it IS a business since many PR and marketing consultancies are gaining huge chunks of money.
553	And it is an outsider in international chemical policy: unable to ratify the lowest common denominator of UN chemical treaties, such as the Stockholm and Rotterdam Conventions, due to shortcomings in US laws on chemicals, and unwilling to change that.
554	And it is easily visible.
555	And it is more convenient for Putin if those groups inclined to fight are involved in Ukraine’s eastern Donbass area, rather than bringing their weapons and their penchant for violence to Russia.
556	And it’s a big puzzle to them, why this happens.
557	And it's a science, a very old science, with old techniques used.
558	And it says: A Decade After 9/11, Police Departments Are Increasingly Militarized (Alan: And it starts off with what they used to have as police and what their rights were and how far they could go with things.
559	And it says, “But never worry, those real life pollinators—the birds and the bees, as they say—may soon be irrelevant to the food needs of civilization.
560	And it says here: DSK was treated ‘like the Messiah’ at orgies, (A: See, they have orgies and stuff at the top.
561	And it says, our biggest threat to the State is overpopulation in Third World countries.
562	And it's definitely going to get a lot tougher then.
563	And it’s even amazing how much stuff they put into movies, and even comedies to do with it; just repetition is all you need to reinforce the basic premise.
564	And it’s got here, Panorama, of course, the BBC’s Panorama has found the scams that are going on with taxes in Britain.
565	And it's hard even.
566	And it's just too bad about the faulty ones who suffer on the way.
567	And it’s never stable, therefore you cannot have a stable life.
568	And it’s not you who’s paying the price.
569	And it was a mob that killed two Americans by setting fires to several buildings.
570	And it was taught, en masse, in the schools and by so-called sociologists (people of the social sciences).
571	And I've just picking up now that Barrack Obama is in office, because I know, I'm a black man myself, and I know that this is just dangerous.
572	And I've tried to explain what it is that's really going on.
573	And just as the pictures implies, stop categorizing jobs as male or female.
574	And: just over the last few weeks, Mr.
575	And millions of gold each month..
576	And my goodness, here is Mr.
577	And not one has done less than $360 million in worldwide ticket sales, a rare marriage of art and commerce.
578	And now the wheels of heaven stop, you feel the devil's riding crop, get ready for the future, it is murder.
579	And now you will join us in the European Union.
580	And of course if you don’t have the cash, that’s it, it’s over… It’s a leech, is what it is.
581	And of course it’s mad, getting fined 10 grand because you’ve got a faulty gutter.
582	And of course, once in a while they’ll admit it and I read last night about all the stuff they were spraying on the public in Britain for over many, many years and it only goes up to about 1970 because the rest of it, since then, is ongoing.
583	And of course they planned an awful long time ago to unite the countries basically, especially into continents.
584	And once they’re in power, they always go off in a different direction than the ones they promise you because ordinary folk just need that… promises.
585	And once you destroy it, you see, you get the chaos that ensues from it because there’s fallout and then that simply escalates like snowballs down a mountain.
586	And one thing I always keep in mind: do yourself and your feelings justice,” Dobroshi says.
587	Andreas Weidinger 10.03.2015 Christopher, one more thing: Your website states: “Note: Several collecting societies have called on their members to voice general disagreemend with the report.”
588	And recent events have challenged China’s plans for nuclear.
589	And remember the Muslim countries are generally run through family.
590	And remember they’re ordering 2,717 of these heavy-duty armored vehicles for use inside the US.
591	And remember too, that those who oppose what’s happening in the world, there’s many groups involved.
592	And remember too, you can keep me going.
593	And right on cue here we are; it’s happening right now, as he said.
594	And she’ll have planned it probably at least months ago, every step.
595	And so back at our own desk we turn to the song itself and its lyrics.
596	And so comes die Feuerwehr With Tatü, tata daher, And they bring a long, long Schlauch And a long, long Leiter auch.
597	And so, in other words, no matter what they see, if the media hasn’t told them to think or worry about it, they will dismiss it immediately from their mind.
598	And so, it brings us back to this Fund for law­suits that would finance pri­ma­ri­ly class action suits.
599	And some of it's misleading too, because it used to be “wash your hands in hot water” now they say “warm water”.
600	And, sometimes a local product – reared and harvested in your immediate area – might not be in line with your values; though by seeing the term ‘local’ you might assume it is.
601	And so, their personality, their personal self is floating all over the world.
602	And so, they’ve achieved goal after goal after goal, with cooperation from the US and the military, doing all the work, and paying all the cash for it, basically.
603	And so, you get all these different groups fighting for petty things.
604	And surprised by the friendliness of the people.
605	And talking about dehumanization, how we’re all getting dehumanized.
606	And that a world whose borders are drawn in a process like the one in Scotland would be a far, far better place than one in which nations are required to face off against one another, as has been the case so many times throughout history.
607	And that means giving qualified people if whatever background the opportunity and chance.
608	And that's again the diabolical cleverness of this system.
609	And that’s only one of them, right.
610	And that’s really what it’s all about, is slaughtering, isn’t it?
611	And that's the agenda for the world.
612	And that's their problem, but it's not mine, and hopefully it's not yours.
613	And that’s the problem too.
614	And that’s what he said about Japan, he says: "This crisis is a huge opportunity."
615	And that wasn’t just an idle boast.
616	And the features of General Relativity, where observers, and different parts of the computational device, may experience radically different proper times, have barely been addressed.
617	And the futuristic screens could eventually replace all of the city’s 12,800 outdoor pay phones, whose franchise contracts with the city expire in October 2014.
618	And the government also passed the MOT bill at the same time, that was the Ministry of Transportation, which meant you had to get it examined every year for this particular test and pay through the nose.
619	And the international conference “Innovative and Sustainable Wooden Architecture and Construction” focused on wood as a building material displaying resource efficiency and innovation.
620	And their little world, what they did after work, but as long as they had the work to go to it gave them a reason for being.
621	And the more he screams, and the more often he screams, the more we're supposed to believe it, and cower and go along with all this loss of freedom that is coming along.
622	AND the most destabilizing factor or our time…) Until now, history has been a quest to acquire information; today, the challenge lies in managing information.
623	And then asked him to comment on the threat of Socialist presidential hopeful in France Francois Hollande to renegotiate the fiscal pact.
624	And the nations all signed this long ago, back in the 60s, just to let you know what’s to come, you see.
625	And then move on to take a number of other hurdles, facing up to the following specific issues: 1. We still know too little about the role played by nature in a wide range of economic processes and the true value of these services rendered.
626	And then they come up, again, through the World Health Organization probably, with a vaccine that’s going to help you against this virus, you know, and he actually says, we could call it a flu virus.
627	And then you'll want to see those renders as proof?
628	And the plane went into it, there was a fire on one floor, and that’s all that happened.
629	And there's a bunch of other news.
630	And there were also charts in there for how many doctors and nurses and general medical staff vaccinated themselves and it was a very, very low percentage.
631	And there were some accidents here, sometimes people would lose their thumbs from being tired.
632	And these geniuses expect the economy to start kicking again, and unemployment to fall with increased taxation.
633	And the small size of the PCN produces a higher light intensity for the same energy.
634	And the third degree is partial replacement of national debt with common bonds with proportionate guarantees from the euro area member states.
635	And the usual sort of way they bring in legalists there to use their terminology to redefine what ownership happens to be and try to obfuscate it, etc.
636	And they are essential in labor-intensive sectors such as agriculture, construction, and garments.
637	And they’d often see Mountbatten sitting with a little boy, and getting him piss drunk, and going up to one of the rooms with him.
638	And they employed the specialists to deal with all of these things, you see, including employment and worker unrest, etc.
639	And they go in and they buy up all the real estate.
640	And they have the beehive as symbol, the ancient beehive, the perfect society with its class system from the top to the bottom.
641	And they’ll just sit, and they eat it up.
642	And they’ll never believe that they’re being lied to.
643	And they’re building them across the world as well, these super smart cities and they’re just waiting for folk to come to them, when the time is right.) Now, the United Nations, I love the terminology they use.
644	And they're pretty vicious some of them too.
645	And they try to get someone who’s a new face and fresh and awfully eager to get awfully rich like Blair did.
646	And they’ve got spies all through your communities, asking your opinions.
647	And they will do that as they depopulate.
648	And they would be eliminated.
649	And this is how a perfect anti-establishment storm began.
650	And this is well understood in psychology, of course.
651	And This Line Of Thinking Does Away With.
652	And this observation of the need to create a common European identity takes on its full meaning in the context of the legitimacy crisis now experienced by the European Union.
653	And this way, you can always get the latest shows downloaded for free on some of them, or one of them, hopefully, eventually.
654	And those boys would come to me, “Do something!”
655	And thus, there’s a big chance could produce quantity of noob styles provided with low low statistics big t ok fit your budget.
656	And we are heading somewhere.
657	And we cannot allow our world to die a result of overburdening our nations for those who refuse to reject envy and move on to enlightenment.
658	And we have not excluding non-cash common stock to registration pill next able to take with to obtain.
659	And we know that governments started to add it in.
660	And we're all supposed to take it so darn seriously as well.
661	And we’re already doing that.
662	And we’re brought up thinking it is, and will defend it without much thought because of that.
663	And we should be happy about that.
664	And what are the implications for accountability and democracy?
665	And whatever happens in Britain eventually, very rapidly actually, is introduced across the British Commonwealth and we're still a commonwealth.
666	And what happened to Allan Rock afterwards?
667	And what they do is exactly what they wanted to do in the first place.
668	And what they do, is they select certain ones with the psychopathic ability to go up the ladder from university to higher orders, the ones that they can use.
669	And when eventually you'll just have my size in stock.
670	And which is the best breed of pigs not to rear?
671	And why have attempts to link variation in metabolic rate to fitness yielded very inconsistent results?
672	And why they try to escape from their countries?
673	And with using the behaviorists as well and with methods to basically make them go against natural instincts, in fact they completely obliterate natural instincts which are not to simply kill people unless your life is absolutely threatened you know.
674	And yes, Gazprom will not like it.
675	And you didn't need a big system to overlook you, and start fining you for littering and all that kind of stuff.
676	And you’re seeing the effects of it now in the way that they talk and try to think.
677	And you will see Jones, Johnstons, Browns, depending on what cemetery we're visiting.
678	ANEC also raised the issue that the market will definitely not serve all groups of consumers, in particular those with low incomes and those living in rural areas.
679	ANEC believes both draft standards are unacceptable.
680	ANEC has asked for this to be clarified.
681	ANEC holds an ad hoc meeting on the accessibility of services Experts from the ANEC Design for All and Services Working Groups met on 4 June for a joint meeting in Brussels.
682	An ecological development will be constructed on the former site of the Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij.
683	ANEC Secretary-General Gottlobe Fabisch participated in the event in her capacity as ISTAG member.
684	ANEC welcomed the result of the vote as it requires the 7th EAP to provide for development of measures related to emerging threats to human & animal health (such as nanomaterials, endocrine disruptors and the combination effects of chemicals).
685	An effective team needs a clear structure so that volunteers understand who they report to and who can support them.
686	An end-to-end case of early warning at the onset of an epidemic will be demonstrated at the Heraklion prefecture, in the island of Crete, Greece.
687	An estimated two million people around the world live with MS, a progressive disease of the central nervous system which includes symptoms such as weak limbs, tingling sensations, blurry vision and fatigue.
688	‘A new lease of life for avant-garde buildings from Russia and Ukraine’..
689	A new session "Education & Training" as part of the Space Appli Conference is opened.
690	A new threat is poor planning of renewable energy development, mostly wind farms, which could pose serious threats to birds, and hydropower stations on Danube and its tributaries, which affect floodplain functions.
691	An example of parametric reconfiguration is a change in filter coefficients.
692	An example of this is the UK where it was reported that only 111 teachers took part out of approximately 30,000 schools.
693	An exploratory study of Internet-initiated sexual offenses and the chat room sex offender: Has the Internet enabled a new typology of sex offender.
694	Angiplast is engaged in manufacturing, supplying and exporting the entire range of transfusion / infusion set, IV set, peritoneal blood dialysis set, disposable syringe, catheter, tubes and other premium quality medical devices and their components.
695	Anglia Ruskin’s involvement would be through the Global Sustainability Institute (GS).
696	Ania Rok & Peter Defranceschi, ICLEI European Secretariat This conference is an associated event of the 11th European Week of Regions and Cities "Europe's regions and cities taking off for 2020".
697	An important aim of the lecture is to show how the manifold, varied and valuable digital sources can support research on the one hand and meet the needs of the general public and educational institutions on the other.
698	An important aspect is the specification of user-defined constraints with respect to the non-functional characteristics (NFCs) of the execution.
699	An increase in productivity has been noted in organizations that make use of this arrangement.
700	An increasing role for home blood pressure monitoring, alongside ambulatory blood pressure monitoring A greater emphasis on assessing the totality of risk factors for cardiovascular and other diseases.
701	An interactive demonstration is available online.
702	An interesting question while we were discussing the theme of this magazine.
703	An internal… The European Commission yesterday announced a 6.8% increase in next year’s EU budget.
704	An international review panel led by Prof.
705	An interoperable Intercloud, will become just as indispensable to business, as these other networks have become.
706	An investment of 52 million Euros is provided by the Development Bank of the Council of Europe (EBRD) together with support from the state budget.
707	Anna Kruczek from KAFOS (Social Organizations Forum of Katowice) and by Ms.
708	Anna was born into a family of musicians in Surgut,Russia.
709	ANNEX 2. Outcome of identification and registration questionnaire.
710	Annika and her team have been working on online pilots for a year and are keen to explain their motivations, “We thought we should be throwing down the walls of the EUI building and making our knowledge available.”
711	An officer inspects a drugs lab a5.
712	An online discussion system for the model aircraft collecting community. a pasarlo bien capitulo 2 vocabulario 2 answers 1. Gay SeXXX Clip is a free gay tube.
713	Anonymous and pillsen This testingcheatsenabled cheat allows you to do several uupdate things when used properly.
714	An organisation’s statutes must show that it was established under the national law of the country concerned and that the head office is located in an eligible country.
715	An organization is having a lot of responsibilities towards its stakeholders, consumers and environment.
716	Another ad, for Bank of Montreal, ran next to live shots of a young teen, who had 13,000 people watching and pushing her to remove her clothing.
717	Another aspect of DSM is technology procurement.
718	Another conference focuses on pollinators in agriculture.
719	Another controversial issue was the so called ‘symmetry’ in reporting of macroeconomic imbalances.
720	Another example is the portability of internet services.
721	Another important character is the presence of the endostyle in the pharynx that will evolve as the thyroid gland in vertebrates.
722	Another important document is Social partners concept.
723	Another initiative focuses on the promotion of multi-modal door-to-door journey planners.
724	Another international socialist after Wells but Wells said this in 1910 when he wrote his book A Modern Utopia.
725	Another key element is to identify new expertise, with a serious focus on SMEs that could offer training opportunities for students.
726	Another part of course was dumbing down the public, it’s been awfully well done– awfully well done– and of course too they basically gave everyone a form of autism in one degree or another.
727	Another plan is that the local government will make a common space available for the Association, which can give space to additional community programs and meetings.
728	Another study from the European Commission states that with waste prevention, eco-design, reuse and similar measures European companies could achieve net annual saving of €600 billion.
729	Another successful EBN Congress thanks to your participation Social Programme - Thursday 26 June 2014 Depart from Lleida to the Vall de Boí.
730	Another such conversation between us was not as heart-warming but it increased the esteem I felt towards Trichet.
731	Another valuable information tool is the Labour Market Information section, containing information on current trends on the European labour market by country, region and sector of ac-tivity.
732	Another way to get it is through care aide agencies.
733	Another way to represent a classifier is to use the confusion matrix.
734	A novel bioinformatic platform integrated all molecular and clinical data.
735	An RFID system therefore allows information to be written and stored on and deleted from the tag microchip.
736	Answer: In this case, the clinical investigation is not to be notified to SÚKL.
737	Anti-EU parties of Left and Right performed more strongly than ever before in last year’s European elections, with the FN coming first in France.
738	Anti-spoofing (brought about by Authentication): the ability to get a level of trust that they are using the signals from the actual satellites and not from any other source1 Which of the following?
739	Antonis Argyros, FORTH-ICS, Greece E-mail: This email address is being protected from spambots.
740	Antonis Zacharopoulos (Chypre ) Company name: A-Z Physio Health Secteur d'activité: Services de santé, de beauté et d'action sociale Vassilis was an excellent aspiring entrepreneur willing to cooperate share knowledge and learn.
741	Anton Koutsoudakis of AOPA Hellas says: “We fought hard to make this happen.
742	Antony supported Caesar throughout his consul- and dictatorships, and was forced to flee Rome temporarily after the plot to assassinate his cousin was carried out successfully.
743	A number of Member States responded to the Resource Strategy with the development of actions plans, strategies, plans, roadmaps and market-based instruments (BIS 2010).
744	A number of studies have reported that genetic variation in FADS1 and FADS2 affect the synthesis of AA and contribute to the variability of fatty acid levels in the short, medium and long-term storage compartments.
745	A number of the CARARE partners have been transforming their existing 3D models into 3D PDF and the first of these (from Cultural and Educational Technology Institute (CETI) in Greece) have just appeared in Europeana.
746	An unique and innovative element of the project is the integration of technological aspects and the potential of the natural environment, aiming to reduce the inflow of nutrients to surface waters.
747	An update of the publically available results for the OPENAIR project is provided in OPENAIR-update-sept2014.
748	Any computerised system used to ensure traceability should conform to the requirements of annex 11 of the EU GMP guideline.
749	Any failure or delay in exercising a right resulting from these Terms of Use shall not be construed as a waiver thereof.
750	Anyhow, I had previously tried Vault of Darkness serial para driver magician it botched my character serila up on more than one occasion.
751	Any infringement of the Charter – a new initiative now being developed by the Civil Society Forum – should trigger EU sanctions.
752	Any one see the movie “Trading Places”?
753	Any subset of the browser functionality can be used by an application if appropriate, even in the background without any visual presentation.
754	Anything of non-robotic nature to them is kind of funny and unfamiliar.
755	Any way, best of luck to everyone!
756	Anyway, getting back to the articles today, and I had a hard time getting the articles because I can’t get the satellite and so on.
757	Anyway, I just was so shocked making this game and listening to your show and I bookmarked your Cutting Through the Matrix on all the computers at the development company.
758	Anyway, it helps the drafting of an implementing guidance to improve uncertainty about the use and development of social media as an industry tool.
759	Anyway, it says: Skull and cross boy!
760	Apart from his work in the area of religious studies and missiology, he has written extensively about hermeneutics and about Christian art in Germany, Africa and Asia.
761	Apart from Israel / the Palestinians I don’t see an issue that would have the potential for a major war.
762	Apart from meat, the products we have currently in stock include a wide selection of cheeses and tinned meat.
763	Apart from that, extensive communication to and education of the consumer is needed.
764	A particular task is the computer-assisted presentation and translation of ancient manuscripts and old printed documents.
765	Apartments in these housing units are heated from 4 heating stations that, between years 2008 and 2011, replaced old boiler rooms.
766	APCMA - Assemblée permanente des Chambres de métiers APCM represents as a national public service the French Craft Chambers on a National, European and International level.
767	A period doubling bifurcation on the route to chaos is used to construct a special sensor combining both linear as nonlinear properties of the ferroelectric detector material.
768	A period of challenges, hopes, disappointments but also accomplishments.
769	A PhD candidate’s research must reveal high critical ability and powers of imagination and synthesis and may be demonstrated in the form of new knowledge or significant and original adaptation, application and interpretation of existing knowledge.
770	A pioneer of performance that we must be proud and to which we give our full attention.
771	A platform, an infrastructure, an enabler This multiplier effect applies more widely, to society in general, too.
772	A political agreement has already been reached in this regard."
773	A position has arisen due to semi-retirement for a full time Administrator based within their High Street location on the outskirts of St Helens with all amenities close by including a private car park.
774	A possible scenario for illustration: the fridge will check the expiry date of the milk, warn the housewife and propose a recipe of a cake where the expiring milk can be used up.
775	AppDB, thus, aims to avoid duplication of effort across the DCI communities, and to inspire scientists less familiar with DCI programming and usage.
776	Applicability: This Deliverable is of value to the senior management of PNOs, technical specialists, Human Factors specialists, Human Resource managers, knowledge and information management personnel.
777	Applicants must hold a Bachelors degree (confirmed L3 level).
778	Applicants should also submit copies of their test scores with their online application to expedite the admissions process.
779	Application deadline January 15 This course shares a common Year 1 with the Computer Systems Engineering BEng Honours degree.
780	Application deadline May 1st, 2015 Start date July 2015 20 to 31 July This course looks at what has been achieved so far, and what future norms are needed.
781	Applications for participation in the programme will open soon.
782	Apply direct to the partnership via its website.
783	Apply for a Marie Curie fellowship at VIB and join one of our leading research groups at the heart of Europe.
784	Appropriate regulation needs to be introduced at EU level.
785	A prehistoric wood trackway (4000BC) running across the reserve was discovered in the 1960s and is preserved under the peat soil.
786	A presentation touched upon the competition law aspects of data-sharing.
787	A procedure related to the application of variation margins, implying that if the value, as regularly measured, of the underlying assets falls below a certain level, the central bank requires counterparties to supply additional assets (or cash).
788	A professional team of neuroimaging experts and e-learning technologists will support your progress.
789	A protein fraction of gluten (Triticum aestivum) found in wheat is linked to islet damage in diabetics.
790	A prototype of the sensor module is now available, and Centro Ricerche Fiat is already performing initial tests in the field.
791	A question we are often asked is about the difference between Europe’s energy Portal and he EU’s statistical bureau Eurostat.
792	A quibble though: You say repeatedly that toxic economics is illogical.
793	A radical reform in governance of state forestry was carried out in 2020s following the principles of new public management, including territorial restructuring of state forest enterprises.
794	A range of services for drug use treatment and/or healthcare is available in a large part of the country, except in the German community where there are no specialist treatment centres for drug users.
795	Are falling birth rates private solutions to public problems?
796	• A regional network is closer at hand and leads to reinforced co-operation between neighbours.
797	Are IP strategies ‘in motion’ in response to these emerging trends of increased openness?
798	Are ownership and regulations surrounding the use of existing media resources strangling creativity within the learning sector?
799	Are pesticides going to be even more insidious or are we going towards a farming where Human beings work in synergy with Nature and don’t harm it.
800	A report by Cushman & Wakefield earlier this year said the UAE capital is expected to double its retail offering to almost 1.8 million sq m by 2015.
801	A Report from the International Seminar: Gold Plating – National Issues vs European Legislation by Matus Posvancon May 12, 2015May 12, 2015 Like?
802	A research team at ICS-FORTH investigates methods to enhance the performance of Web proxies thus enhancing web server performances.
803	A resulting reduction of 15% of total energy savings by 2020 is expected, rather short of the 20% goal that had previously been agreed on.
804	Are the democratic shortcomings connected to the peculiar and asymmetric way in which the strings of the purse are divided between the Union and its member states?
805	A review of a customer's energy usage, often including recommendations to alter the customer's demand or reduce energy usage.
806	A revolutionary new method of smoking without nasty toxins from tobacco smoke which allows you to beat the smoking ban.
807	Are we merely to adjust and enlarge an inherited frame of understanding to incorporate this critical encounter, or is something more required?
808	Are we not all somewhat Belgians, after all?
809	Are we right in doing so?
810	Are we sure that rural development is doing what is should be doing?
811	Are we talking your language?
812	Are you going to be around later?
813	Are you interested in being involved in the selection of the innovative concepts for urban transport that will be developed within the project?
814	Are you there Derek?
815	Are you there, Heather?
816	Are you there, Ken?
817	A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Lenvima is used as safely as possible.
818	A risky environment pushes people towards economic activities with secure but lower average returns and thus decreases wealth.
819	Arnold Pindar, the chairperson of the ANEC Coordination Group, participated on behalf of ANEC.
820	Around 10% of Romanians have left their country since the fall of the Berlin Wall in search of better living conditions.
821	Around 20 percent demonstrate more differentiated ways of managing their finances, while only 3 percent have developed sophisticated strategies.
822	Around 50% of the value added by agriculture (gross margin of outputs less inputs) in Northern Ireland over recent years has been from milk production.
823	Around three people in ten (29%) do say however that they have not made their choice.
824	Array is not responsible for the content of any third party website.
825	Art Factories have been set up in more than 40, mostly old, buildings in the city, providing a total of 1,500 spaces and offering a place to work and occasionally live to more than 2,500 artists, creative businesses and artisans.
826	Article 13 contains provisions on the rights of trade unions to exercise control over the labor protection of employees at their work places, and payment of compensation for the work-related injuries as a result of accident at work.
827	Article 20 of the EED invites MSs to work to either establish dedicated financing facilities to support energy efficiency investment or use existing facilities to provide these financing services.
828	Article 26. The financial year shall extend from 1st January to 31st December of each year.
829	Article 31: Terms of Office of the Executive Committee The terms of office of the Executive Committee shall coincide with each person’s term as an Officer.
830	Article 3 – paragraph 1 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Improvement of the wording to better reflect the intention of the article.
831	Article (3) specifies exceptions to losing Mexican citizenship after taking another, particularly if such act was not entirely voluntary (e.g. when it was "absolutely necessary" for getting a job in the third country, or enforced by law).
832	As a Compliance Assurance Manager some of your key responsibilities will involve; Undertake regular compliance assurance reviews Where appropriate, to undertake desk based review activity.
833	As a current active member and former board member of the international student association COSMOS at TU Eindhoven, she strives to promote cultural exchange among people from different parts of the world.
834	As a follow-up to these findings, the Commission announced planned measures to further strengthen consultations and improve their reach.
835	As a German working for more than 30 years on European affairs I am shocked.
836	As a high-tech region of international standing, the Stuttgart Region is one of the most interesting business locations in Europe.
837	As a mobile process control center, this Windows 8.1 app provides a current, concise status on individual company financial statements and group consolidation.
838	As an important step to realize the SET-Plan, Research Ministers of the EU Member States and Associated Countries, together with the European Commission, announced in November 2010 three new pan-European energy research infrastructures.
839	As an inclusive, recreational, competitive, interactive and interesting sport I feel it has great appeal to more people than baseball or fast pitch and it can be played by more people.
840	"As a patient myself, a patient relative, taking care of my handicapped daughter and a long time health care provider including many years in oncology hospital, I am a dedicated patient advocate" he said.
841	As a regional initiative, general overview of the BS-ERA.
842	As a result, 19 participants have been certified as national training experts in their respective countries and agencies.
843	As a result, as many as 300,000 pages can be printed with having to replace anything except toner, significantly reducing both waste and cost.
844	As a result, Egypt finally notified its BSE import rules to the WTO SPS Committee in 2011.
845	As a result of fast technological evolution and a growing juxtaposition in a number of communication areas, a draft of the new telecommunications framework has been launched at the beginning of 2000.
846	As a result of Rajoy’s good record on the fiscal front, there is a growing consensus among eurozone countries – particularly France and Italy, but also in recent days Germany – that Spain does indeed fit the criteria for EFSF bank bailout aid.
847	As a result of surfing through the search engines and getting techniques that were not helpful, I figured my entire life was gone.
848	As a result of the above, the government, especially Prime Minister Ansip and Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi, is increasingly viewed as arrogant and out of touch with the public.
849	As a result parties are heavily dependent on the oligarchs and even funding from abroad and this is one of the most serious problems facing the country.
850	As a result, the EU BPO market has matured significantly.
851	As a result we can see many connections between breath, inspiration and words.
852	As a rule those countries that are farthest from Turkey in every aspect are also the most positive to Turkey's accession in the EU.
853	As a significant part of consumption takes place in the household sector for heating, the demand for gas is not evenly distributed throughout the year.
854	As a spot remover, HG travel wash is applied directly to the stain.
855	As a stand-in for a talk that had to be canceled, Christian Lieske of SAP in Germany took the stage a second time.
856	A schematic complex cross-section is constructed, which demonstrates that the satellite data may be used in the study of the magnetic anomaly.
857	As citizens we can sign the ECI and become “legislators”, because we have no intention of letting the financial markets and the economic powers decide what our future should be"
858	As city and cantonal library the ZB also offers a wide selection of popular literature – from travel guides and self-help books to biographies, crime thrillers, DVDs and sound recordings.
859	As clients, tahoe gives us some options to access files and directories.
860	As Community legal acts came in force in market safeguard sphere, procedure of safeguard measures implementation, decision-making and institutions changed.
861	As crippled governments currently focus mainly on tackling financial issues, not much attention is left for crime.
862	ASEAN’s involvement in Myanmar is contingent upon personal and informal relationships with military decision-makers, and the aid it facilitates is dependent on the continuing generosity of international donor-nations.
863	A second identified need was to improve the current EU IDB (injury database, successor of the EHLASS system).
864	A Secrets Our detailed collection maps and descriptions reveal precise locations for all Unique Stunt Metaphьrs and "Hidden Packages" in Liberty City A Maps Score health, armor, and weapons no matter where you are in Liberty City.
865	A selection of two non alcoholic beverages must be cheaper than the cheapest alcoholic beverage.
866	As EPOMM sees MM as an efficient way to save energy, we recommend participation in this consultation.
867	A serious challenge for concentration monitoring is that concentration analysis may be insufficient to distinguish between degradation and e.g. dilution, volatilization or migration.
868	A set of eight personas, playing different roles, was defined to illustrate scenarios in which the Serenoa results can be used.
869	As for the two Anglo-Celtic countries, while the UK has experienced the rise of a strong anti-European populist force, Ireland stands out as a rare case in which no such a party has risen in spite of the severity of its economic and political crises.
870	As geoscientist we have to consider the social and cultural implications of our research and work.
871	As he said in interviews in the early 1990s: ‘Why do I feel I'm so important, when I know I'm not?
872	As Holy Years created extra income and prestige for the city and the papacy, popes did not hesitate to proclaim extra Jubilees in between the regular Jubilees.
873	As Hyundai prepares for the UK launch of its hydrogen-fuelled SUV, the firm has also been working with a number of projects including London’s Hydrogen Network Expansion (LHNE), the Hydrogen For Innovative Vehicles (HyFIVE) and the UKH2 Mobility project.
874	ASIAME aims is to bring together scientists, post-graduates, and graduate students in order to exchange the most advanced knowledge and methods in aquatic microbiology through scientific lectures and practical training.
875	Asian Studies at Aarhus University China Studies at Aarhus University is an Area Study and part of Asian Studies, which consists of language-based regional study programmes, comprising China, Japan and South Asian Studies.
876	Asia tools and future events which can contribute to industrial partnering with Japan.
877	As Iceland is already a member of the EEA and the Schengen area, a large part of its legislation is already aligned with that of the EU.
878	As I had a HP laptop, I pct two letter country codes a HP printer so went pct two letter country codes this printer at the very cheap price.
879	A similar approach could also apply to standards development organisations.
880	A similar pattern was seen for C. coli isolates from Gallus gallus; however, levels of resistance were higher overall.
881	A similar riposte must be made to consequentialist maximalists Kees Groenendijk and Ricky van Oers, who deplore the negative “effects” of citizenship tests on lower-educated immigrants.
882	A simple explanation for this finding would be that CMC dyads asked more questions about cues not available to them, such as looks or clothing.
883	A single family home and an apartment building consist of both off-the-shelf appliances such as dishwashers, refrigerators, and boilers, and electronic loads.
884	A single or multiple fellowships can be awarded, with a total of up to €5000 allocated between the selected candidates to cover expenses related to their proposals.
885	As in R9 except that these facilities specify a maximum period of residence of less than 4 weeks.
886	As installing sewage systems in rural areas is not a priority, aid organisations are trying to find other solutions.
887	As in the rest of Europe, mentalities have evolved and methods of communication have taken a leap forward.
888	As in WPs 2 and 3 the main aim is to collect information on roadmaps, research priorities and investments in road transport.
889	As Ireland's only member of the European Parliament's high-level Trade Committee, Mr Kelly wishes to raise awareness amongst the public and business communities about the opportunities a balanced TTIP could bring for economic growth and job creation.
890	As I said before, you can get so bombarded with information but you can’t absorb it, you can’t make head nor tails of it because each one is contradicting the other.
891	As I say, then the car went Wednesday, just suddenly no transmission and no drive, no drive at all.
892	As I say, they're resolute, you've got a great white shark on your tail, you can't negotiate with them, they cannot be negotiated with, it's impossible.
893	As it is a bottom-up initiative and a voluntary commitment to meet ambitious targets set by the municipalities themselves, it is also of no cost to join the Covenant of Mayors and fulfil the targets and duly report in line with the Covenant methodology.
894	As Julian Assange has put it.
895	Ask for product and service reviews.
896	Ask yourself that.
897	As local non-profit legal associations they organize the management of ecologically sensitive areas that depend on extensive farming, like wet meadows, dry areas or orchards with old fruit varieties.
898	As long as they convey what I'm saying, that's the main thing, that's the main point, so don't be terrified to put your hand in and try it.
899	A small team of representatives from FEPS and the European Forum met politicians from local and national level, representatives of EULEX and ICO, NGOs and academics both in Pristina and Mitrovica.
900	As means of navigating around the functionality a 3-D user interface is provided which is responsive and user-friendly.
901	As mentioned above, the respondents mentioned that their parents do not understand the issue and that they would overreact or would not understand this bullying at all.
902	As mentioned in the Europe 2020 Strategy, the active population of the EU has started to shrink in 2013/2014.
903	As Ministers of European Affairs of six EU countries with social-democratic governments, we want to see a courageous reform which will further enhance the EMU’s functioning and credibility.
904	As more and more project results are becoming available, the dissemination process has been reinforced to spread the project findings beyond the partnership.
905	As my interviews have shown, they result from personal experience of a problem and experimentation with various human and non-human agents.
906	As not all topics will be generated at the same time, submissions will be regularly revisited and assessed.
907	As of 2008, the WZB is involved in the national education panel – a long-term study of educational processes.
908	As of a few years ago, the handling of permanent public art projects in Sweden is regulated by law, and the public procurement process is difficult.
909	As of the writing of this document, we have an implementation of PEP and UPP available as extensions to Microsoft Internet Explorer 3.01 and IBM web server on Windows NT.
910	As one of the leading research centres in the field, the CCSR has set up and continues to be involved in running both the ETHICOMP international conference series and the globally used Computer Ethics email list (computer-ethics@jiscmail.
911	As one satisfied Helsinkian described the service after the city of Helsinki had fixed a pothole in less than 24 hours: “Incredible – it’s working.”
912	“A Soul for Europe” is a civil-society initiative that is seeking to make more effective use of Europe’s cultural resources than in the past to promote the European development and integration process.
913	As outsiders get drawn deeper into the Arab Spring and start dictating the outcome of domestic processes, there is a real risk that they might derail a genuine process of democratisation.
914	As part of a comprehensive advancement process, the training providers within the cooperative financial group have established guiding principles for the sustainable development of their training programs.
915	As part of in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatment, stimulating the follicles (eggs) in the ovaries during each monthly cycle is the first step.
916	As part of our approach to business, product meditation tips and educates our customers on the proper use of our products. with a core product focus on the K2 incense blends.
917	As part of the Commission’s Minimum Standards on Consultation, it aims at improving European governance and introducing Better Regulation.
918	As part of the parking lot.
919	As part of the study, numerous types of vessels that operate on European rivers have been analyzed and, as a result, five vessel types have been identified as potential targets for an LNG fuel system.
920	As part of the workshop, the participants received an introduction to the RFSC webtool and had a chance to apply their knowledge in practice, using a Develop Your Strategy tool to plan a new tourist route in the Alba County.
921	As part of this project LDA Nis, as the local partner organization to the Association for the development of children and youth, did the analysis of local legal framework relevant for foster care and intersectoral services for children in Nis.
922	A special Round Table was organised on the evening of the 4th of June, inviting History Education experts Dr.
923	Aspiring entrepreneurs who have an idea for a start up in the area of internet can join it.
924	A spring of healing water gushed where she fell and died.
925	As regards the application by Mrs.
926	As Schick (1999:2) puts it, “Strategy without opportunity cannot advance the cause of reform very far.
927	• Assess exposure trends of relevant contaminants in residents within the region from both historical and newly collected samples.
928	Assessment system of students’ achievements is 10 points.
929	As Sir Nick Harvey pointed out, “pooling and sharing does not mean compromising national interest”.
930	As soon as these rise above a certain level, the patient should report this to the consultant physician as action will then be necessary.
931	As specialists in replica designer handbags, we pride ourselves in offering all of the best in every replica Marc Jacobs bag.
932	As stated in section "Public research organisations", Chile has a multitude of international cooperation agreements.
933	As stated in the Monterrey Consensus, it is important to reduce the transfer costs of migrant workes´remittances and create opportunities for development-oriented investment.
934	As such, if the high levels of demand amongst the citizens of the EU for biodiversity, cultural landscapes and other environmental public goods are to be met, the state has to intervene to secure their supply for present and future generations.
935	As such requirements for Data Cloud services need to be defined and validated.
936	As such, the BiodivERsA database is a valuable tool for strategic cooperation and expertise in the large, fragmented domain of research on biodiversity and associated ecosystem services.
937	As such the validation agent was under no obligation to investigate the correct identity of the owner of the prior right.
938	As such they will support further implementation of Circles in surrounding countries.
939	A standard questionnaire was circulated and respondents were sampled according to specified criteria.
940	As the ACE programme concluded in 1991, a separate fund for nature, Actions by the EU for Nature (Council Regulation 3907/91, known as ACNAT) was adopted.
941	As the EU’s 3rd largest aid provider, France’s performance is most worrying, which is why we will be closely following the government’s recent announcement that it will begin IATI implementation in 2014 for priority countries.
942	As the focus of the information is on opportunities for SMEs, they are the audience prior.
943	As the Greens continued to attack the True Finns in order to halt their momentum, for some the Greens came across as arrogant and lecturing.
944	As the IQWiG is a leading producer of patient-centred and evidence-based health information it is a matter of substance that it provides patients with accurate, high quality, timely, evidence-based information that is published in useful manner.
945	As the justice sector remains the main challenge there will be a specific focus on this area.
946	As the overall welfare effects are supposed to be positive it is feasible to compensate losers.
947	As the project is currently in its initial phase, we are not able to outline major milestones, but first initial activities have already been realised.
948	As the Respondent correctly submits, Article 10(2) of the Regulation clearly refers to the "name for which the prior right exists" and this wording of the Regulation does not limit the prior rights to word trade marks.
949	As the time goes by, I can now see that people here are calculating and obnoxious and that they rejoice in ridiculing others.
950	As to budgetary issues, Mr De Castro, Chair of the COMAGRI, added that “neither the European Parliament nor its Agriculture Committee will adopt a final position before the deal on the EU’s multiannual financial framework is reached.”
951	As to the CF's monitoring role, the Ombudsman understood that it has competence to (i) deliver an annual report on Frontex's implementation of its fundamental rights obligations, and (ii) receive reports from the FRO.
952	A strengthened peer-review system that can improve the consistency of scientific assessments is one of the objectives set out in the European Medicines Agency road map to 2015.
953	A strict policy of author anonymity shall be adhered to ensuring that the Committee will only consider each proposal on its own merit.
954	A study of 26,500 adults published by the University of Crete in June 2014 found that nine out of 10 Europeans who tried e-cigarettes in 2012 were ex-smokers or smokers, often heavy ones.
955	A substantial part of his research has focused on the molecular mechanisms of drug toxicity and on liver injury.
956	A suite of biochemical reactions in marine organisms may occur as a response increasing sensitivity towards the impact of infectious agents and parasites.
957	A summary of the main issues identified in the applicable requirements are: 1. The HierarchyLevel (NationalLevel) attribute in Administrative Units data is supposed to be in CamelCase (e.g. 4thOrder).
958	As usual, members of the development team gathered at the Digital Europe Building to rehearse the presentations and test the demos that were going to be shown the following day.
959	As web technology has evolved, tools have been developed that support the design of both visual content and functional services for users.
960	As well as leaving him with some impressive numbers in his mobile, Hamáček’s spell at the YES also helped deepen his long-term interest in diplomacy and international affairs.
961	As well as providing services and building collaborations with external companies, Beactica is progressing its own drug discovery programmes.
962	A Symfony console command that can run commands itself.
963	As you all know, the European Union has a long tradition of close relations with both Israelis and Palestinians.
964	As you are all well aware, the European Commission sends copies of its legislative proposals and the Oireachtas, along with every other parliament across Europe, has eight weeks to respond.
965	As you examine this vital artistic tradition in its historical, cultural, and political contexts, you discover how appreciating the legacy of American art is crucial to fully understanding the story of our great nation.
966	As you have said before, at the end of WW2 part of the political settlement within Europe was an agreement to cancel reparation payments against post war Germany.
967	As you hear him effortlessly deliver Elizabethan language with the proper meter, emphasis, intonation, and emotion, you'll experience the pleasure that comes with true mastery.
968	As you may know Syria has more than 23 sectors and religions, including Christians, Jewish, alawaites, She’a, durzeis, and others, these “rebels” are slaughtering every non Muslim Syrians in the name of god, and the name of the future Islamic state!
969	As you review results from various search types, you can select certificates individually or in groups.
970	At 1701, the American strike had made contact with Hiryu.
971	At a given point however, MM should be integrated as an essential part of local mobility policies, preferably in a Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan (SUMP).
972	At all cost, one should never lie or give misleading information in the application form, to avoid getting into big trouble.
973	At another bail hearing before Judge John Koeltl late Thursday, Starr was again ordered detained, though Koeltl said he believes a bail package could be arranged in the future.
974	At Canterbury Crown Court on Friday, Osolase was convicted of five counts of trafficking for sexual exploitation, one of rape and one of sexual activity with a child.”
975	A temporary president was installed.
976	A term sometimes used to refer to a qualifications The currency providing a measure of learning outcomes achieved in a notional time at a given level.
977	At global level, trans-border animal diseases fall under the remit of the World Animal Health Organisation.
978	Atherosclerosis is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
979	At Irstea, I work at the Directorate of International Relations, in collaboration with the Directorate of PR and communication, as the Institute's European and International Communication Officer.
980	Atlanta Federal Penitentiary index for records in NARA's Regional Archives in Atlanta.
981	At least 66% of your internet site, what individual search extra 4m internet site thoughts your month, are formed in the significant abc1 socio economical teams.
982	At least a little.
983	At least as far as I can go without being bumped off.
984	At Lisbon’s Universidade Nova, Dr Ana Abecasis leads a new research group on the evolution of HIV that receives partial funding from CHAIN.
985	At national level, the USH continues to support the social housing organisations in achieving the objectives of the Grenelle, in particular in using the resources of the French POWER HOUSE Platform.
986	Atomic layer deposition (ALD) is a thin film deposition technique that is based on the sequential use of a gas phase chemical process.
987	A total of 15 vehicles of this type were exported to China.
988	At our portal you will find the best real estate in Thailand: flats in Pattaya, Pattaya flats price, apartments Thailand, buy real estate and Pattaya apartment sale, etc.
989	At present, the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft maintains more than 80 research units in Germany, including 60 Fraunhofer Institutes.
990	A transgender activist from Italy, Vladimir Luxuria, was arrested in Sochi on 17 February for displaying a rainbow banner that said ‘It’s OK to be gay’.
991	A transportation operator operates a gathering system, pipeline or local distribution company.
992	At regional level, the map shows that differences are rather high in many countries but not necessarily linked to demand from population.
993	Attach the second piece of jump ring to the other ends of the strings.
994	At tactical level, Russia also sees the situation in Afghanistan as an opportunity to secure its interests both regionally (consolidating its influence in Central Asia) and more widely (in terms of its relations with NATO).
995	Attempts are made for accurate and precise experimental determination of mechanical behaviors such as nonlinear stress-strain, strain rate dependent hysteresis, cyclic softening and stress relaxation of this material.
996	Attempts are therefore being made to find ways to slow brain-aging processes; successful therapies would have a significant impact on the quality of life of individuals, and decrease healthcare expenditures.
997	Attendees will be able to create and manage their own simulated health records, based on clinical care scenarios across hospital settings in Europe," said Octavio Barbero, IHE Project Manager.
998	Attending this program was a significant driver to my career.”
999	At the base station, the supervising exercise physiologist oversees the exercise program and can report ECG abnormalities to the cardiologist or contact emergency services with the patient's location in case of an emergency.
1000	At the beginning of May, the 2nd Finnish training took place in Tampere and the focus was on communication and stakeholder involvement.
1001	At the conclusion of the Gaudeamus Muziekweek this same jury will announce the winner of the Gaudeamus Prize.
1002	At the conference ‘cultural heritage: an added value for Europe' on 9 December the importance of cultural heritage and the major challenges related to it were discussed from a European perspective.
1003	At the end of April 2015, the e-SENS project tested the first integration of the Evidence Emitter, a mechanism for achieving non-repudiation in cross-border communication through evidence generation and collection.
1004	At the end of each challenge you'll receive a token.
1005	At the end of his lecture, Habermas glanced at his watch and amused the audience by apologizing for having taken so much time.
1006	At the end of the project there were 2 NEW deliverables: • D56 ERA-net Information Exchange Effectiveness: A quick assessment of the effectiveness of the human ERA-network and selected information repositories.
1007	At the end of the third year at vocational schools (“professionali”), you will have to take a qualification exam.
1008	At the end of the Trial Period, if you choose not to purchase the Software, the Trial Software will be deactivated and you are not authorised to use the Trial Software after the Trial Period.
1009	At the end, the user's knowledge is mapped thoroughly and a tailored learning content is offered to be learned.
1010	At the insistence of Johan Willem Beyen, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, a permanent representative of the British Government was also invited to attend all the meetings of the Spaak Committee.
1011	At the moment signatures can only be collected on paper, because the site for online collection of signatures is not yet available.
1012	At the moment, various research efforts based on the data gained are under way.
1013	At the moment we are not aware of any "off-the-shelf" component that can provide the functionality of OpenStack Data Collector.
1014	At the other end of Europe, Brussels is leading on Sustainable Food.
1015	At the rear, the additional functions are grouped around a landscaped garden with a transparent and open architecture.
1016	At the same time, Latvia has not forgotten about the Western Balkans or the Middle East and North Africa.
1017	At the same time that nanotechnology is providing many new exciting applications and benefits, it also has the potential to create significant new risks for workers, consumers and the environment.
1018	At the same time, the communication era offers new possibilities for communities based on common interests and preferences, or popular and corporate culture.
1019	At the same time, the economically active persons are those aged 15-74 either employed or unemployed.
1020	At the same time, the global MACC-III forcast shows a plume of desert dust being transport from the Sahara region towards Spain (click on image for an animation).
1021	At the same time, the programme will give the opportunity to provide our Brussels based partners with first hand information of the recent socio-economic challenges and the development in the labour movement in Egypt.
1022	At the same time, the right to sanitation should not infringe the right to safe water.
1023	At the same time they have granted more flexibility to the decision making process confronting rapid changing environments.
1024	At the start of the Conference WECF, WISE, Friends of the Earth Europe, Greenpeace, International Forum on Globalization, Nuclear Information and Resource Service issued a statement to keep Nuclear Energy out of Clean Development Mechanism.
1025	At the time I sold a great deal of paintings in the Netherlands.
1026	At this point I had one or two sobering conversations with knowledgeable individuals that pointed out anything involving images of guns and military hardware would possibly be looked upon negatively by the powers that be.
1027	At work we do not necessarily see bills and as we don’t pay any bills there is little urgency or motivation to act.
1028	Audiguru has assemble an exceptional possibility.
1029	Audiovisual materials » About nano » Audiovisual materials QuèQuiCom : nanotecnologia (In Catalan) QuèQuiCom is a Science communication program that explains science that affects people's life.
1030	A uniform area payment would have undesirable effects even if it may be simple”.
1031	A U.S. investigation commission attributed the disaster to management failures that crippled “the ability of individuals involved to identify the risks they faced and to properly evaluate, communicate, and address them.”
1032	Austin Cup Vsetín 2013 – Double of Sokol Modřice The Austin Cup international tournament in Vsetín once again offered top level Futnet.
1033	Austrian Circle of Trust is an initiative of the Austrian Federal Chancellery and CERT.at and consists of Security Information Exchanges in the various areas of strategic information infrastructure (CIIP).
1034	Authentication: Confirmation of the identity of a user.
1035	Author of four books and more than fifty research papers.
1036	Authorship should conform to the guidelines established by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICJME) ‘Recommendations for the Conduct, Reporting, Editing, and Publication of Scholarly work in Medical Journals’.
1037	Authors: Marta Fraticelli (aGter) A cooperative farm on the periphery of Rome, formed in 1977 following occupation of the land by a group of young people opposing urban development.
1038	Available in the Prius and Auris HSD, this globally recognised powertrain technology is one of the most successful in the history of the awards, with a total of 11 titles.
1039	A valued credential awarded in several fields that proves competency upon satisfactory demonstration of particular knowledge and skills.
1040	A variable holds data, but a command evaluates or manipulates that data.
1041	A vendor CSIRT focuses on the support of the vendor-specific products.
1042	A version of this demo for mobile devices is also available.
1043	A visual programming environment avoids the need to set up a development environment to author multimedia applications.
1044	Avoid getting hit by th.
1045	Avoid the 6% realtor fee @ save thousands$$$!
1046	Awareness raising activities for students in EGYPT NREA organized a public awareness raising campaign for school students to acquaint them with advantages of renewables and energy efficiency.
1047	A well-organised section must aim to become: a) a centre able to shake up public awareness on problems of European unity and federalism; b) a centre of cultural development.
1048	Awesome twinks Brenno And Gabriel tasting and stroking their huge hard peckers Join GoGoTwinks for only $1 now!
1049	A white golden earring from our housecollection, set with 2 brilliant cut diamonds with a total weight of approx. 0,41 crt.
1050	A wide variety of literary forms are studied, ranging from the fairytale to crime writing, from drawing-room drama to new urban narratives.
1051	A wired local network connects these devices with the community device, which acts as a router in the community network.
1052	A work plan is presented and discussed at the yearly GeoNetwork workshop; subsequently, the plan is maintained and updated throughout the year where needed.
1053	A workshop dedicated for machining ceramic materials is available.
1054	A worrying recent trend has seen shrinkages and a breakdown of the adhesive bonds with failed areas becoming harbours for potentially dangerous microbes, and requiring major repairs.
1055	A WSDL-based type system for WSBPEL Alessandro Lapadula, Rosario Pugliese, Francesco Tiezzi We tackle the problem of providing rigorous formal foundations to current software engineering technologies for web services.
1056	B2MATCH neither endorses nor examines any of the material submitted to us and/or posted on the Web site concerning its compliance with law.
1057	Background in the EU strategy on alcohol The EU strategy to support Member States in reducing alcohol related harm, launched in 2006, aims at reducing harm among children, young people and adults.
1058	Back pain is the leading cause of lost work days, and the second most common painful neurological ailment, yet it is not widely recognised nor acknowledged as such.
1059	Bad Food: Encouraging people to “eat whatever they want” will encourage people to consume mostly processed foods, which not only isn’t good for your weight, but is bad for your long term health as well.
1060	Baggier jean, as they are worn on boys, can be matched with tennis shoes seamlessly.
1061	Baked in a tonir, a pit dug into the earth containing fire, the dough is beaten and attached to its warm walls to cook.
1062	Bands for Hands Jewellery offer high quality Diamond Jewellery,Gold Wedding Rings,Palladium rings,Platinum Rings and Silver Jewellery.
1063	Bank accounts and everything.
1064	Banking regulation is also the adjusting screw, to control the costs of banks' granting of loans to the real economy.
1065	Banknotes follow a specific path through the economy.
1066	Banned with Head-Admin approval.
1067	B., an old faithful, suddenly shouted, "I refuse anymore to sing words I don't understand."
1068	Barbara Krumay studied Business Informatics at WU Vienna with a specialisation in environmental management, organisation and e-commerce.
1069	Barriers on the demand site include a lack of trust in smart metering.
1070	Bartek Czerwinski Bartek is co-founder and CEO of Proton Labs and is focused on design and product development.
1071	Based on HTTP is the specification AS2, which uses signing, encryption and MDN (Message Disposition Notification, the ability to provide return receipts).
1072	Based on research MU has been at the forefront in influencing policy issues nationally.
1073	Based on studies with radiolabelled nitrofurans, high levels (mg/kg range) of metabolites are present in tissues shortly after the last treatment.
1074	Based on the exploitation of EU research projects results, each company has developed a unique value proposition and an attractive competitive positioning.
1075	Based on the MIRROR reflection model it suggests next steps based on the phase of a reflection sessions.
1076	Based on the success of this first Linguistics programme, three more seminars followed in 2014.
1077	Basically, this is a great option whether you have bought a new or used boat or even if you’re working on antique boats.
1078	Bay Zoltán Nonprofit Ltd. for Applied Research Bay Zoltán Nonprofit Ltd. is Hungary's leading network of applied research institutes.
1079	BBC schedules for 15th May are not yet available for BBC1 or BBC2 (nothing beyond 3rd May is currently available).
1080	Beautiful deals, eh.
1081	"Beautifying the world 101" is the second Renata's project which became one of the winners of "Senior citizens in action" competition.
1082	Be careful when you are signing up with secured credit card companies because a lot of them charge high fees in exchange for issuing you a card.
1083	Because all we’re doing is getting taxed to the hilt to give to big corporations, at least the corporations that set up abroad, international corporations in third world countries.
1084	Because a lot of these boys at the top from Eton, Oxford, and Cambridge, they love a little bit of spanking and handcuffs, and whipping now and then.
1085	Because his party is the creator of this corruption!
1086	Because it is a string type the client can send a partial date string and get the corresponding results without an error.
1087	Because it is costly to purchase cleaning products and equipment, leasing provides people with the chance of using the equipment without spending a lot of money.
1088	Because of another fuel injection, the noise of the engine is lower than before and the fuel consumption could get reduced again.
1089	Because of its absorption properties it would be classified as 5 star protection according to the Boots UVA star rating system.
1090	Because of the contagious nature of scabies, doctors often recommend treatment Scalp Med offers many other hair loss remedies and it is specially formulated for both men and women without any side effects.
1091	Because of the higher complexity of hole-type systems, a dedicated theoretical framework will be developed in support to experiments.
1092	Because of the low cost of labour and its position outside of the major urban production areas, textiles could be one of the major winners of the DCFTA.
1093	Because of these characteristics it differs substantially from all existing higher education rankings and addresses the needs of various stakeholders in higher education.
1094	Because people are the ultimate source of innovation—and IT is in a unique position to enable that change.
1095	Because R-tree indexes are fast and work directly on geodetic data they are the preferred indexing mechanism for working with spatial data.
1096	Because that’s how business really is.
1097	Because that’s what these big think tanks do, they’ve been here for an awful long time.
1098	Because that’s what you’ll be able to..
1099	Because the 15 Dublin Core fields are optional and repeatable, almost any metadata standard can be mapped to it sometimes with some information loss, (not all fields can be mapped to the 15 Dublin Core fields).
1100	Because the EU does not print Euros.
1101	Because they’ve almost finished with the US.
1102	Because they were working for their masters, not the public, to bring in a global society.
1103	Because we care for Europe, because we believe in the idea of Europe, because we think Europe can learn from its failures.
1104	Because we're on a domain (and presumably everyone has the same email domain), wouldn't it be neat to auto-fill in the email address for our users?
1105	Because we were in the system, because we still have some people from that system (they are among us) we can see what are the things behind.
1106	Because you make contact with many other international students you can also improve your English.
1107	Become as a little child, my dear.
1108	Bed and breakfast and chambre d,hote in Burgundy.
1109	BeeLife, the European Beekeeping Coordination, an association working for the protection of bees at European level, provides scientific and technical expertise to the initiative as well as a networking platform for beekeeping organizations.
1110	Bees and Beekeepers Being Busy Buzzing At the grocery store one day, my daughter noticed a little girl sporting a Cinderella backpack.
1111	Bees and other pollinators are essential for our food and are indicators of agro-ecosystem health: intensive farming reliant on pesticides is a key factor leading to their sharp decline, as indicated by recent studies.
1112	Before applying for a TCO authorisation, operators should study the regulatory material and the information provided our website and the FAQ section.
1113	Before arriving at Bryn Mawr, Shore was director of the Historical Studies-Social Science Library at the Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) in Princeton, New Jersey, from 1985 to 1997.
1114	‘Before being adopted by the International Olympic Committee, anti-doping originated from two major sports: track and field and cycling, both of which were very popular in Europe, so there’s a kind of historical nucleus of anti-doping science in the EU.
1115	Before started at DNV Research & Innovation in January 2009, he worked for DNV Business Assurance as a consultant on risk management projects.
1116	Before starting a career in consulting (IT,organization and marketing) he was working for Gamma, which was acquired by Cap Gemini.
1117	Before that, four of the Mercosur partners – namely Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay – will meet on the 7th of March to try and settle on a common offer.
1118	Before that it was the Spice Girls.
1119	Before the decision is published, registrants will have the possibility to comment on the public version and request further information to remain confidential.
1120	Before the session, you can then check that they correspond to your needs.
1121	Before the start of every edition we look at the activity from the games here on ESL and decide if one or more titles need to be changed or added.
1122	Before the war he was a postman in Limerick.
1123	Before they found a job, some people were a bit worried.
1124	Before travelling to Strasbourg, each student was required to prepare a personal project retracing his or her personal experience or conception of borderlines.
1125	Before you do anything else, you will need to find the relevant form.
1126	Before you start using a site for your hobby, make sure they accept the currency.
1127	Beginning from 1986, a special section was dedicated to jazz within the International Istanbul Festival.
1128	Behind my grandfathers chair forward gazing straight at holding a birch bough the head of the.
1129	Be immediate owner by contract through a Buy Now purchase.
1130	Being a clearly anti-liberal phenomenon, nationalism is just one of such phenomena, and lending it such weight indicates a strongly biased approach to populism.
1131	Being humble, inside, industry by storm your plain and simple presumption that you simply simply didn’t do anything but your need and therefore the real personalities generally your dropped friends.
1132	Being in the same team as him gives you a certain desire to do whatever you can and run your socks off."
1133	Belgium gives an important logistic support to this Swiss-Italian-Irish research, but it is a two-way process.
1134	Belgium: The Liga voor Mensenrechten organizes a Student Award - August 2014 The League will reward a student who wrote an outstanding academic paper on Human Rights.
1135	Belief in its purest your commitment to your smack to carry small lots of arms out.
1136	Beliefs about expert level training courses One element of the European Patients’ Academy is the development of an expert level training course for patients.
1137	Below we explore some of the ways these key points could be addressed.
1138	BEMO-COFRA – Mobile sensors and modern ICTs introduced into a Brazilian car production plant are set to improve monitoring and control, as well as overall productivity, reliability, safety and quality assurance.
1139	Be perfectly guiltless he distinguish by feeling the her of nothing and of drapery becomes a. Health and engage in the only public room means be suhaagrat mein vivi ko kaise chudai kare to of falling.
1140	BEREC also provides expert opinions on emerging challenges including the promotion of broadband, net neutrality and converging markets, and plays an active role in public discussions on these issues.
1141	Besides, another problem affects the lack of European identity: as ALDA Director argued “When we talk about European identity, we want to base the notion on the EU, whereas the concept is more wide-spreading.
1142	Besides everything altough Europe is still the most intellectual community in our planet and if EU can challenge crony capitalism or theft, an avantgarde will be for World like enlightenment era.
1143	Besides historic sites such as the belfry and the Burg, Bruges has much more to offer.
1144	Besides, it will highlight some news items and events, which are of relevance to this topic.
1145	Besides reporting about activities and achievements in the second year of the.
1146	Besides that, she assists with the organisation of events, partner meetings and managing translations.
1147	Besides the full service expertise performed by the RI specialists, almost all the instruments available in the RI can be directly operated by the users, thus increasing the utilization of the RI equipment.
1148	Besides the modelling of the game worlds, there are other game elements that can be generated.
1149	Besides, the new law guarantees the access to basic health care and education to all migrants, regardless of their legal status.
1150	Besides the reason of case of Ergenekon of Turkey is it was organised by some lunatics the leaving of Turkey where from the NATO.
1151	Besides this, the facility will have room for environmental volunteers and areas for developing in situ and ex-situ conservation programs.
1152	Best of all, Ryan's ear for speech is acute.
1153	Betlémské nám. 251/2, Praha (Prague 1-Staré Město) Sales and rental of jukeboxes and table football.
1154	Betrand Filon (CEA) will review the current research landscape in advanced photovoltaics, and identify specific areas of European strength.
1155	Better policies for cohesive societies The agenda of social cohesion involves policies that reduce social gaps, provide opportunities and ensure social protection.
1156	Better regulation must give humans, animals and nature better protection, not profits.
1157	Between 1996 and 1999 she was a Researcher and Assistant Consultant on Management & Occupational Safety issues for EDF, from 2003 – 2005 she first became involved in EDF R&D’s European Projects as advisor and project manager.
1158	Between 4 May and 24 June, law enforcement officers from the 28 EU countries and international partners1 joined forces to take out organised crime groups and their infrastructures.
1159	Between producers and retailers, artisans and professionals lies a very important sector of the economy: wholesalers are the engine of efficient supply chain throughout the EU economy.
1160	Between the distant galaxy and Earth is another galaxy.
1161	Beware of door-to-door salesmen who pretend to be empowered by authorities to sell smoke detectors.
1162	Beyond their application to the support of legal activity, IT, and especially Artificial Intelligence, can be regarded as possible risk sources for some rights.
1163	Be your own doctor.
1164	B Go to the Wishgranter with over 1,000 veet underarm hair removal cream review points.
1165	BHA pilot Zaharna Fabrika Housing Estate, block 4, 10 and 25 Short Description: High energy consumption and the deteriorated state of condominium housing are urgent problems of the housing estates in all Eastern European big cities.
1166	Big Box of Blox is a column stacking game taken to outrageous extremes.
1167	Bigpoint’s predictive model is allowing it to intelligently make real-time decisions about a player’s actions.
1168	Big poster (format: DIN A3) on the most important issues of CESBA.
1169	Bikini typically refers to some swimsuit whenever a lady or perhaps a woman is sporting.
1170	Bilbo is a hobbit – one of a race of small people.
1171	Bildard Baguma, Under Secretary General of Programmes and Projects, Uganda Red Cross distinguished two types of silent disasters, those that never make the news and those that make it to the news for 24 to 48 hours before being side-lined by other news.
1172	Billy reeb, announced ashton brother, a 66 years old black gentlemale on a as well as white grey goatee who was simply 16 if reeb was killed.
1173	Billy will cry if you pop his balloon.
1174	Bin Zhang who leads the participation of SoilTrEC partner the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning.
1175	Bin Zhu, in the very recent invention and development, he has made a revolutionary fuel cell technology invention by using single-component device to realize existing fuel cell three-component functions.
1176	Biodiversity Virtual e-Laboratory BioVeL is a consortium of 15 partners from 9 countries.
1177	BioenNW will occasionally update this Privacy Statement to reflect company and customer feedback.
1178	Biofluid flow modelling must also take into account the deformation of the vessel wall during pressure-wave propagation or environment loading, in particular changes in external pressure during respiration, and especially in thoracic vessels.
1179	Biological, ecological, modelling as well as socio-economic and management aspects will be covered.
1180	Biology and control of vector-borne infections in Europe Is there a correlation between the weather conditions and the appearance of potentially infected bank voles?
1181	Biotechnology, energy, environment and transport are sectors which offer immense scope for synergy and collaboration.
1182	BioTop reports on biofuels in Latin America - a detailed list is included on the downloads page of the EBTP website.
1183	Black AB Pearlesque is 3.5 mm wide and is a round knit.
1184	Blair’s father was the Commissioner of the British High Commission for the English Royal Opium Company of Burma.
1185	Blaž Kavčič on February 16th 2012.
1186	Blogs are accessible through the classroom general blog that contains a list of all the students' personal blogs (as a Blogroll).
1187	Blogs of the European Geosciences Union Search all blogs Search this blog only Search all blogs Search this blog only EGU Blogs » GeoLog » Educational Fellowship at the EGU – open for applications!
1188	B. Method: Selected problems of case studies Setting aside for a moment the substantive issues discussed in the last section, we still have to examine whether the case studies fulfil the promise of a theoretically informed legal anthropology.
1189	Bocconi students can rely on a number of different offices and services that help them in their learning and studying, such as the Library and computer labs around campus.
1190	Bo has a background from food retailing and food service business in Sweden.
1191	Bolivia is the biggest recipient of EU aid in Latin America, receiving €241 million from 2007-2013.
1192	Bony also points out that geoengineering schemes which aim to reduce incoming solar radiation to cool the planet’s surface would leave the dynamical component of precipitation change untouched.
1193	Border exist on paper only & this is a step in the right direction!
1194	Born in 1977, she is living in Paris.
1195	Born in Milano in 1980, he graduated in piano at 19 years of age at Conservatorio Giuseppe Verdi and later graduated cum laude at Università Bocconi.
1196	Born in Palermo of Ghanaian immigrants, Thomas and Ruth Barwah, he was put into care just one year after his birth.
1197	Boss Lieutenant Simmons The undead Simmons appears after you defin ition a few dozen Hollow Men.
1198	Both are direct consequences of anthropogenic CO2 emissions and cannot be separated from each other.
1199	Both Buildings were completed and occupied back in 2007.
1200	Both commissioners underlined their commitment to the success of REACH, the European Chemicals Regulation.
1201	Both days featured key speakers from outside of the project, in addition to experts from the IMPACT consortium.
1202	Both Germany and the United Kingdom have 29 votes each.
1203	Both historically minded and present-oriented papers are welcomed.
1204	Both illustrated the importance of organising a cross-border team to increase the EU pressure and to unveil the complete story of problems crossing individual countries’ borders.
1205	Both judicial review of legislation and electoral accountability of the legislator give institutional expression to co-original and equally basic commitments of liberal-democratic constitutionalism.
1206	Both new ANEC representatives are members of the ANEC ICT Working Group.
1207	Both politicians have also indicated their support for a European financial transaction tax, more competences for the EU parliament and the direct election of the Commission’s president.
1208	Both programs were part of Chalmers Young Researcher Award.
1209	Both the Americans and the Russians have developed capabilities to manipulate the World's climate.
1210	Both, the partners’ and Konica Minolta’s own software developments effectively improve printing workflows, e.g. in the areas of VDP job submission, document composition and output management.
1211	Both will provide power for TLC energy stations.
1212	Botnets join a huge number of compromised computers in the Internet and allow using these computers for performing vulnerability scans, distributing denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks and sending enormous amounts of spam emails.
1213	Box 2: The Concepts of Networks The structure of a network is comprised of a topology of points, linkages and structural forms.
1214	Brain simulation can help us to systematically search for novel synergistic effects with combinations of different drugs administered with different treatment protocols – a strategy far too dangerous and too expensive to test in human patients.
1215	Brandings specializes in interesting names for tour busine.
1216	Break down what you were covering earlier in the last segment in more detail.
1217	Breast cancer, cervical, uterine et cetera because of the artificial – my God, there's 60,000 sources of xenoestrogens.
1218	Breathing Light is a luminous installation, marrying the immediate and transcendent.
1219	Breffní Lennon July 11th, 2012 I agree with Dr.
1220	BRE is already engaged in development programmes where innovative products and processes are being applied to buildings and the ultimate performance in operation measured.
1221	Brigitte Cardinael and her co-authors from Orange provide a European operator view on 5G. 3GPP system standards heading into the 5G era Balazs Bertenyi, Chairman of 3GPP TSG-SA, shares the latest status of 5G standardisation at 3GPP.
1222	Brigitte Vermeersh of Belgian channel VRT and Grethe Gynnild Johnsen of NRK Norway explain how their regional stations attacked the problems of technical and organisational change - and survived.
1223	Bring to the boil and simmer for 15 minutes, until the mixture releases all its nice favours and colours.
1224	“Britain already has, since 1996, a voluntary system of Internet censorship through a web address blacklist determined by the Internet Watch Foundation, a private charity.
1225	British Apache pilots complained that standard Hellfire antitank missiles were going straight through buildings and out of the other side.
1226	British Greens have had two MEPs since 1999.
1227	Britta says its long track record means the price differential between conventional houses and those that are more energy efficient and built with less environmentally damaging or noxious materials is narrowing.
1228	Broad budget support is often in vain, and off limits with sufficient respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
1229	Brokerage activities in the area of loans, loans, buying and selling real estate, mortgages, insurance.
1230	Browse our policies.
1231	Browse our website for the latest 2013 Culture photo gallery, as well as older photo galleries highlighting culture cooperation projects in the East, and feature stories on culture and heritage projects, as well as our dedicated culture and media page.
1232	BRSV infections associated with respiratory disease occur predominantly in young beef and dairy cattle.
1233	Brzezinski has said.
1234	BT has a strictly manager IT infrastructure and strict rules on information management and where information is maintained, how etc.
1235	B. The new tank is called Mäuschen, and we have really put a lot of effort into making its model exceptionally beautiful.
1236	BtL is used in diesel engines.
1237	Budapest company G. Gregersen and sons was charged with realization of building work.
1238	Building on the results of IPCC 5th Assessment Report (AR5), the Conference will address key issues concerning climate change in the broader context of global change.
1239	Building on this experience, the TIMBRE research project will be better equipped to provide end-users with tailored information and tools that will enable stakeholders to tackle the complex problems of revitalizing the Hunedoara site.
1240	Building on this, the company relies on five core values which apply to all our employees.
1241	Building the basis for a strong long term user involvement – far beyond the duration of the CATO project itself – is a central objective and corner stone of the CATO strategy.
1242	Building up confidence, resilience and psychological well-being are important categories in our research.
1243	Build your own viral list free!
1244	Built-up land is lost for other uses such as agriculture and forestry and has a strong impact on soil functions (e.
1245	Bulgaria has a special position in Moscow’s energy strategy.
1246	Burke’s “little platoons” were the inspiration of my recent book, “Falling in Love with America Again.”
1247	Burnett advised MEPs throughout the revision of EU Public Procurement Directives (2000-2004).
1248	Buses are available every 10 minutes on every station.
1249	Business confidence in the European Union stabilised in May and remained largely unchanged from its April level.
1250	"Businesses who currently trade with the US find the compliance requirements very off-putting.
1251	'Business-oriented' Event (in Boston October 2012) Independently from the European Commission and the US DHHS the European Connected Health Alliance (ECH Alliance) intends to organise a Business Marketplace on 23rd October also in Boston.
1252	Busty Party naughty squirt fucked at home Horny hentai sucks DVDA Retro anal in bathroom Handjob Outercourse woman gives hardcore and fucks Skinny bondage Reika Kudo sucks stud’s long finges..
1253	But actually having researched my second book and travelled among Russians, I have found that Russians are equally hospitable.
1254	But after reading it I find it amazing, like how true it is to what’s going on today, like every aspect of government, controlling government, banks, not only Masonry, but the media, everything.
1255	But America needs to learn to discipline itself into a strategy of gradualism that seeks greatness in the accumulation of the attainable.
1256	But as far as I understand it you told “die Zeit” that it wouldn’t make such a big difference if Nea Dimokratia/Pasok or Syriza won the election.
1257	But, as I say you have to make your OWN judgement because reviews by an individual remain that, a personal review and not yours.
1258	But, as I’ve been listening to you, week after week, you are very muffled.
1259	But as time passed and calls for a ‘debt restructure’ began to be voiced by other commentators too, ERT producers started telling me that government officials were leaning on them to keep me off television screens.
1260	But bad examples exist all over the EU, otherwise the ratings would all be 10. Crossover on May 20, 2012 at 20:48 said: Your tax money doesnt go to EIB and get invested.
1261	But be aware that the prices might be a bit higher now.
1262	“But, before that it’s important to overcome the internal difficult situation.
1263	But being a young entrepreneur takes perseverance, because things never appear to occur first time in this game.
1264	Butch: The definition was in that particular announcement that every citizen in the United States would be examined for psychological problems and treated.
1265	But commodity mutual funds are a great tool to add investment diversification to any portfolio.
1266	But dampening proliferation incentives by resolving regional security problems and applying diplomatic and economic “sticks” and “carrots” will remain the preferred approach.
1267	But design inspirations can present a fun challenge by begging, red bottom heels What would that look like, anyway?
1268	But development experts caution there is absolutely no statistical significance to shifts in the top 15 or 20 countries on the index, given their relative wealth.
1269	But don’t fear, our agents are here to help!
1270	But due to many constraints, it is not always possible that owners themselves do the work because there are certain aspects that require unique skill and experience.
1271	But EMA has not only grown in numbers, EMA has grown to become an active, proud, and big family.
1272	But, even if the agreement is signed, the inelegant deal making over Tymoshenko’s fate will hardly give the ceremony an air of unbounded success or genuinely warm partnership.
1273	But even in the absence of users’ clearly established individual identities, the estimated two to three hundred people who constitute this circle highlight a sexual subculture whose existence had been an anathema to public culture.
1274	But, everything to do with finance and cultural practices.
1275	But for airline marketers like Per Møller Jensen, cut-throat competition means there is a huge imperative on communicating with consumers anytime, any place and through every medium.
1276	But for heating purposes, the electricity-consuming AC-units should as far as possible be replaced by modern installations.
1277	But for now, the internal market is still incomplete.
1278	But for our evaluation of the applications we focused on investigative stories that had a genuinely cross-border approach.
1279	But for some reason with me, they have a problem that’s got Yahoo baffled apparently.
1280	But for this we will need more Europe in telecoms regulation, in the application of competition law, and in copyright matters.
1281	But further advances need to be made.
1282	But Hans, you'd like to impose a system which will deffinitelly be cripled, to make the curent system better for majority.
1283	But he does not dwell there as if fated to remain in some hopeless abyss.
1284	But he just hammered everybody there.
1285	But his early transgressions of buns she dealt others feel and act as.
1286	But, I always tell people to think for themselves if possible.
1287	But I do have one significant qualm.
1288	But if they say, here, look at the fun you will have on this, and here is the price… you go and buy it… and you still think it’s yours.
1289	But if this most pernicious of all deficits is not tackled energetically, the process of unraveling will surely continue.
1290	But I’m sure most listeners know where the world is going and why it’s happening.
1291	But in Brabrand no Danes are living.
1292	But IntelliTouch isn't the only Elo multi-touch technology.
1293	But “it can make change for the positive”.
1294	But it is not the Technicolor apocalypse promised by the likes of Al Gore.
1295	But it’s not going to stop them; but it’s really nasty.
1296	But it's not what you think.
1297	But it turned out that thanks to this slogan the people who remained loyal to the system but didn’t want to keep voting for Putin cast their vote for Prokhorov.
1298	But I want to give then my money and give it for something that is new and can make credits and experience for me.
1299	But just what was the problem that capital faced in that period, a problem grasped better than anybody else by Keynes?
1300	But Keira was not the only one to fear that her boss was abusing his powers.
1301	But looking at the way Catholic churches in China are decorated nowadays, we get the strong feeling that most of the sculptures and paintings are adapted to European tradition.
1302	But many patients inform the doctor too late and then have to be rushed to hospital either to see the consultant or be admitted or re-admitted.
1303	But MEPs disputed this analysis of events.
1304	But messes have a way of also bringing about opportunities, don’t they?
1305	But now our critics including current Foreign Secretary, David Milliband,- but not for much longer William – have had to resort to personal attacks.
1306	But now they have psychiatry you see, experts to say if you’re quite sane or not.
1307	But over time they will seem like the guy trying to sell us a 100-volume set of encyclopedias while the rest of us use wikipedia.
1308	But please note that the main purpose of a RFV is not to provide supplementary information in respect to a proper delineation of an unclear LUI boundary.
1309	But progress still has to be made in terms of monitoring and supervision.
1310	But recap in more detail what you were just covering in the last segment.
1311	But right now we Drug Enforcement Administration arrested replace the lost helicopter so that we can shows how America's attitude to our normal routines.
1312	But Russia’s trajectory is obviously longer and more difficult.
1313	But, see, it’s all psychological.
1314	But she’s already in control of the daily beast, a web news site.
1315	But she yells: ‘Go play outside.’
1316	But SLAs are only part of the picture.
1317	But soon the lights of the spectator indian aunty mallu tube nude porno he sees on gav me sex store hindi me for his hand.
1318	But such a discussion is a conditio-sine-qua-non to take over leadership.
1319	But take away the dynamic campus, the upscale residences, all the nearby shops and cafes—and you're left with traditional college life: the electric excitement that signals knowledge being transferred, minds being shaped, and lives being changed.
1320	But that all changed as soon as he won the prize in 1974.
1321	But the Central Election Committee refused to register him on 27th August because of his dual nationality (Azerbaijani/Russian).
1322	But their size and might were of little consequence last week in Beijing’s universe.
1323	But the latest research shows that machines are… Danish researchers are teaming up with the Carlsberg brewery and a packaging company to develop a biodegradable paper bottle.
1324	But the mental frame, including training, education, and historical relationships with the landscapes of people determine which part of the landscape ecosystems are actually perceived, recognised as benefits and valued.
1325	But then he was wonderfully good-looking, with his crisp brown hair, his clear-cut profile, and his grey eyes.
1326	But the options for producing energy from renewable sources are better because of the short distances involved in transporting biomass materials.
1327	But there is at least a difference in emphasis.
1328	But, there's no doubt about it, that this is such a long-standing agenda, and we've seen the build up of internal armies.
1329	But there’s no doubt that Revelations is a sort of blueprint which they are following to the letter with their plagues, famines, war, marked so you can’t buy or sell without the mark, etc.
1330	But the usual measure of growing prosperity is GDP per head; i.e., if GDP grows at 2% but population grows at 3%, then GDP per head is falling!
1331	But they also capture and hold attention – because the more you look, the more you are drawn in to the experience.
1332	But they are so general that it makes it difficult for NATO to agree on how to deal with them.
1333	But they are under no illusion regarding their ability to shape the agenda, realising that the eurozone debt crisis is likely..
1334	But they can really… You understand, the whole point is to convince everyone, through lies, to give you your opinions on everything, and how to demonize people.
1335	But they really want to bring up their targets for reducing emissions BIG TIME.
1336	But they still are responsible to the voters.
1337	But they were also provided with many opportunities, and were enabled to develop and experiment with the help of the European Social Fund and the Horizon, Equal and Leonardo projects.
1338	But we do know one thing: Whatever they are, they can drive 2014 Nike Free Run Gimnasio Negro fluoresceína Hombres Tienda Outlet On Sale very well.
1339	But… were in the world do you want to find the MONEY for your solutions?
1340	But what truly sets it apart is that, despite the fact that 95% of its guests are omnivores, Laguna doesn't serve any meat or fish.
1341	But when circumstances change, the bright hopes of an age are prone to crash in disillusion.
1342	But when the crisis becomes very deep, as in countries like Greece, Ireland or Iceland, it is not only the legitimacy of the incumbent government that is damaged.
1343	But why is integration such a hot topic and where do we need to start?
1344	But without understanding and considering the socio-political underpinnings a social revolutionary solution in the interest of the majority cannot be devised.
1345	But with Putin’s increasingly authoritarian course internally, and with his more aggressive foreign policy, it is today clear that Russia is on a different path, at least in the short- and the mid-term.
1346	But yeah, he was definitely on the take and pushing it on television.
1347	But you also have an important role to play in sharing your experiences with countries from our Eastern neighbourhood.
1348	But you have to go into the whole Millennium Project as well as the Agenda 21 and you’ve got to go into your local councils and kick out that bunch that just grafted themselves on without your electing them that represent the Agenda 21 group.
1349	But you know darn well this is how the old boys club works.
1350	But you need four years of experience.
1351	But you've got to fell engaged with the computer.) The days might be numbered where a consumer watches a bag of chips roll through the machine and drop.
1352	Buy and sell quality Murrieta real estate at this professional website.
1353	Buy auto truck accessories and parts here at Coast Line Sales.
1354	Buy energy light bulb from a secured website like Lyco.
1355	By 1964 I was a sannyasin, which made me more difficult to place than, say, a promising novice, and fifty years old.
1356	By a continuous organizing of social struggles against racism, exclusion, exploitation and oppression we can achieve a lot.
1357	By allowing the slave to be ‘autonomous’ within a ‘reasonable’ scope compared to a non-slave person, a virtual (and external) higher level of desires is being created.
1358	By applying user-centered design the users and their activities, goals and characteristics are placed in the center of the development process, i.e. the specification of potential services will be explored within this project together with them.
1359	By a twist of fate, our visit coincided with one of a group of fans of the Avanti.
1360	By August 18th, over 2600 earthquakes had been registered by the seismometer network, ranging in magnitude between M1.5 and M4.5.
1361	By cleaning the Root Chakra, we will be improving our well being, build a powerful feeling of safety, connectivity to our environment, and eliminate fears.
1362	By combining local industry knowledge and international networks with the business ideas and motivation of entrepreneurs, Innovation Norway thus serves as a foundation for new successful businesses.
1363	By combining our strengths in wireless software with Alereon’s leadership in Wireless USB hardware, we are creating a breakthrough wireless capability for this important market.”
1364	By continuing the modeling and observations, both in situ and from space, we will better know the variations over long periods.
1365	By contrast, e.g. for credits below a minimum amount of 300 Euro, regulations would have still to apply.
1366	By contrast, only 23% of the men entitled to parental leave took the leave, and only 12% were paid (Statistics Netherlands, 2014).
1367	By doing this, you can do all the things that any wiki page allows.
1368	By exchanging experience and good practice, this project aimed to strengthen the capacity and effectiveness of public support to unlock and support the economic potential of the creative economy.
1369	By facing reality via the visual arts, the Holocaust no longer can be defined as indescribable; it constitutes a reaffirmation of the human experience by the mostly Jewish victims.
1370	By harnessing the potential of the ICT revolution, EAI engages the global community in all sectors of society to explore ways in which innovation in technology and business can benefit society at large.
1371	By identifying synergies, the added value of these practices can be considerable (e.g. ENERGee-Watch Network).
1372	By its judgment delivered today, the General Court dismisses that application.
1373	By July 11 eurozone finance ministers have time to decide on the controversial issues surrounding the new loan.
1374	By looking at the ReRisk project as a case point, what is the role of ESPON in policy-making and political decision-making?
1375	By manipulating parameter values in the model, we can work out which represent the primary causes of disease and which are secondary effects of the original change.
1376	By moving the grids during the shooting, Potter discovered, the grids became invisible on the X-ray image.
1377	By now, thanks to the tireless efforts of the Budapest festival Center Kht., this touristic off-peak season has turned into a cultural peakseason.
1378	By offering stylish, qualitative and affordable clothing and accessories – tailored to the needs of the customer – the collections of e5 can make anyone radiate regardless of one’s age, figure or lifestyle: ‘Simple Good Feelings’.
1379	By participating in the LANDMARK project, Bremen was able to advise its public procurers on specific tenders relating to the procurement of sensitive products.
1380	By partnering with FairWarning, care providers are able to direct their focus on delivering the best patient outcomes possible while receiving expert, sustainable and affordable privacy and compliance solutions.
1381	By reading this publication, you will gain new insights into how health care can be built up around a patient's needs.
1382	By reducing the exposure of each counterparty to one another (or to the CCP), both netting and the default fund reduce the incentives of traders to acquire information about the payoffs of the security they are trading.
1383	By relating output variables to input variables, I aim to tease out the influence of possible input variables on collapses.”
1384	By spending a few minutes using our online service, you will be presented with the best prices for your car hire in Cardiff, and you can select from smaller independent to international car hire operators.
1385	By submitting your application, you'll also get instant access to the Members Only Area of CarbonCopyPRO.com to learn everything you need to know.
1386	By that time another generation has grown up, and they don’t care about what happened before.
1387	By the end of that year, he came back to Hindrikes with a product design and a business plan.
1388	By this, the new node learns who the neighbour nodes are, and vice versa.
1389	By TrackBack on Monday, October 28, 2013 Blog - Padgets Website ver2 goes live!
1390	By TrackBack on Tuesday, June 11, 2013 His chess vocation with something like 1 GB, but so over again, Apple's got to sell a new earpiece in a twelvemonth.
1391	By using GEOSS interoperable tools, the original content in geographical and environmental data is augmented with contributions by the French Ministry in charge of Environment, the French Mapping Agency (IGN), the University of Genova.
1392	By using proof checkers, which guarantees the required precision, in combination with manual control, CWI has reached promising results.
1393	By videos xxx cojiendo señoras maduras gordas viejas series of tight round her wrists as if to keep these meddlesome hands out.
1394	Cable Production and Cable Assembly UL certified (please ask for UL file number).
1395	Cache-Control: no-cache Pragma: no-cache X-Powered-By: PleskLin Is Europe failing?
1396	Calcium carbonate dissociates into its constituent ions in the acid milieu of the stomach.
1397	Calderon, whose country is in charge of the G20, is publicly advocating for a weaker euro.
1398	Call a meeting and they will come!
1399	Caller: So, it’s just another pseudo sort of religion, to make the people feel powerless?
1400	Call for candidates: President and Vice-President of the European Chapter All EMA members from European countries are invited to apply for one of the opening positions within the Directive board of the European Chapter: President; Vice-President.
1401	Call for proposals on “Promoting the Integration of Roma in and through Education” Coordinators..
1402	Calling an attorney before making any talks with the insurance agency or the involved party keeps you from making any adversely binding commitments.
1403	Call me today to discuss your HARP 2 refinance.
1404	Call of duty 5 prestige guide areas of concern are its fully automatic (no user input) ISO sensitivity function and the lack of an optical viewfinder.
1405	CAMELOT is unique in that it aims to promote the role of video production in language teacher training.
1406	Campus life gives them the opportunity to test-drive what they learn in class; and in return, student activities feed back into their hospitality management courses.
1407	Canada – they are in the NAFTA.
1408	Cancellations are free of charge if they are made within 7 days of the booking date and at least 48 hours prior to the actual commencement of the hire.
1409	Can design benefit industry?
1410	Candidates to fill the vacancy may be nominated in writing by both Members and Board until two weeks before the commencement of the General Assembly at which voting will take place.
1411	Can European democracy be perceived as a way to balance inequalities between different ways of defining and demarcating collective belonging, and if so, how?
1412	Can I be the one waking up and everyone else around me is wrong, and so, it’s good to have someone there who has at least a couple of steps ahead or around, so they can say, yeah, yeah, and help you out of there.
1413	Can I enrol after registration deadline?
1414	Can u give me some suggesion how to make iron oxide nanoparticle via microemulsion process.
1415	“Can we say that metropole is a legal status?
1416	Can you help me September 24th, 2012 at 13:14 (UTC+02:00) i could help with Spanish translation.
1417	Cap Digital is working to make the Paris region one of the world's digital leaders, from both an industrial and strategic point of view.
1418	Caption text displayed in the thumb and frame formats may contain wiki links and other formatting.
1419	Career opportunities can lead you into a wide variety of stimulating and financially rewarding occupations, including accounting, stockbroking, financial services and management.
1420	Career Orientation aims for personal discovery and acquisition of the most inspiring job.
1421	‘Career-wise it is essential,’ said Prof.
1422	“Car-Free Day” takes place on 22 September, in which street(s) are closed to cars and open to people.
1423	Carl Nicolajsen January 2nd, 2015 In wartime the British are staunch defenders of european values.
1424	Carneades appears to provide the most features, lacking only support for the procedural aspects of argumentation dialogues, such as support for argumentation protocols.
1425	Carrelli warned against overrating the importance of bandwidth: "The value is not in the megabytes, the value is in the service."
1426	Casa Delfino Town Suites is an elegant 17th Century Venetian mansion, carefully and attractively restored as an exclusive luxury hotel, located in the Venetian port of Chania, Crete, Greece and is open all year round for your summer and winter vacations.
1427	CasaQualità, in collaboration with the Cooperative ‘Power Energy’, has taken actions to enhance its activities in the field of energy services and research of financial partners.
1428	Case C-369/90 Mario Vicente Micheletti and others v Delegación del Gobierno en Cantabria Mr Micheletti had Argentinian and Italian nationality.
1429	Castles, caves, ice caves, thermal water parks, bicycle paths, but most beautiful landscapes of the National Park Fatra.
1430	Categories : Events, MobileWebApps, Training MobiWebApp: 2012 in review (kudos to the Mobile Web training courses!) The WordPress.com stats helper monkeys prepared a 2012 annual report for this blog.
1431	Cause the 70% of the comments are against the bankers and with Greece.
1432	CBDR does not apply as an overarching operational principle of the post-2015 development agenda.
1433	CCL- Computer Forensic are leading experts in digital forensics, computer forensics, computer analysis and litigation support.
1434	CECED welcomes the mandate of the European Commission given to the European standardisation organisations to develop European standards for the treatment of WEEE and that those standards shall reflect the state of the art.
1435	CEER´s work on storage and LNG was also welcomed by the Madrid Forum.
1436	CEFRIEL pursues these objectives through leading research activities, innovative services to enterprises, master programs, and high-level ICT education to professionals.
1437	Cell-IQ R live cell imaging and analysis systems, developed and manufactured by Chipman Technologies of Tampere, Finland.
1438	CEN has also developed standards on loading units such as swap bodies, which is a container with particular dimensions designed for intermodal transport in Europe.
1439	CEN Technical Committee 331 Working Group 1 on Quality of Postal services met on 9 December 2003 and agreed upon 4 proposals with respect to the measurement of access to postal services and quality of delivery.
1440	CentraLab - Central European Living Lab for Territorial Innovation CENTRAL EUROPE Programme, Proj.
1441	Central Eastern Europe Meeting — Krytyka Polityczna & friends ENCATC Cultural Policy & Cultural Management Research Award Ceremony ECF is grateful for the longstanding partnership with the Prins Bernhard Cultuurfonds.
1442	Central Statistical Office of Poland actively participates in EU projects that cover merging statistical and geographic data, including presenting statistical data on grids.
1443	Centric AEP supports you in processing consignments that you need to register with your customs office for export.
1444	Certainly, the EU’s key objective of bringing Turkey’s foreign policy closer to the EU’s has been totally missed.
1445	Certification indicates that a city has attained a certain status or level with regards to some goal, for example, carbon dioxide free municipal buildings.
1446	CEVIS has two final products.
1447	Chaired by the European Commission, this (annual) EU stakeholder forum brings together the national and European consumer associations; Ministries; energy regulators; and the electricity and gas industries to address customer issues.
1448	Chances and Challenges of Energy Transition - Claudia Kemfert & Andreas Loeschel December 5th, 2013, 13:15 – 15:00 The lecture was held in German.
1449	Changes to the EU’s trade preferences for Bosnia would mainly involve products such as meat, dairy, and certain fruit and vegetables.
1450	Changes which I am confident I will be able to endorse and accentuate throughout 2015.
1451	Changing legislation regarding permits, energy certificates..
1452	Changing the orientation of calcite as light passes through it will change the relative brightness of the projections of the split beams, even when the Sun is hiding behind clouds or just below the horizon.
1453	Changing the position of a block within the reading order of an article can be accomplished via the keys “<” and “>”.
1454	Chapter 2 article 6 of the Instrument of Government.
1455	Charlotte: Let's give your website out, it's cuttingthroughthematrix.com. George: Thank you very much, Alan.
1456	Charter (CHTR) currently has about 4.1 million TV subscribers and 4.9 million broadband subscribers.
1457	Cheap Jordan 11 Georgetown Sale Online ﻿Place the back of your eyelet underneath your material so that it is centered on your mark.
1458	Checking the credit system.
1459	Check out our blog to find a documentation of all the highlights during the festival!
1460	Check out our events calendar for other diary dates and our presentations page for slides from recent events.
1461	Check out the article written about TraSer on ICT Results.
1462	Chelsea prospect named in Slovak U21 squad for friendly game against Portugal, which is to be played on 9th August in Estoril.
1463	Chest pockets. 3/4 sleeves with button cuffs.
1464	Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation conference, seminar and publication grants Deadlines for CCK conference and seminar grants and CCK subsidies for publication have just been changed.
1465	Children from religious families would rather make light of their faith than be vulnerable, and when it is finally found out, they hurry to assure their friends that they are not fanatics, that they know how to make fun of their faith, etc.
1466	Children may attend on a regular basis or occasionally.
1467	China aspires to global recognition.
1468	China “depends too much on coal”, said Wu.
1469	China has about 50% of known world reserves and until very recently was behind 95% of global supplies.
1470	China has enjoyed a 10% growth rate over the past 26 years.
1471	C. his experiences of using the game.
1472	Choose from a large selection of the highest quality, contemporary, classic, and modern oil paintings from all over North America.
1473	Choose from an existing inventory or work with Arlene to design a custom quilt of your colors, size and motif.
1474	Choose from multiple National Champions and Olympic Champions who will guide you as you develop the skills necessary to move forward in competition.
1475	Choose Primary Partition from the Create As dropdown and linux-swap from the Filesystem dropdown.
1476	Choosing low fat foods, whole grains, and making sure each meal includes a source of protein and fruit or vegetable you can plan your own healthy breakfast ideas.
1477	Chris: Okay, well, Mr.
1478	Christine Edwards, Project Co-Founder For six consecutive years the GSA has sponsored the GSA Special Prize for the Most Promising Application Idea for European GNSS.
1479	Christophe Frankel, CFO and Deputy Managing Director said: "Today’s transaction, the ESM’s first bond of 2014, has attracted solid demand.
1480	Christos Mouzeviris January 14th, 2014 Christos Mouzeviris January 14th, 2014 jovan sorry but it IS true.
1481	CIEMAT is now working on drafting the proposal for a minimum set of standards to be shared with ENEA and NREA.
1482	Cigelects is a great alternative to smoking and will help you quit all together.
1483	Cihelní 2591/67, Ostrava (Moravská Ostrava) Sell a rozvážíme cask beer all brands, not only to restaurants but also at private events.
1484	CITIES Forum (Cities of Tomorrow: Investing in Europe) More than two thirds of EU citizens live in urban areas – but does policy making in the EU reflect the realities of today's Europe?
1485	Cities in action: careers advice for young people Cities at work: BEACH – careers advice for young people Find out how Brighton & Hove is helping young people learn employment skills through an innovative website.
1486	Cities participating in MOVELE will not be authorised to apply for funding from IDAE managers expressed their confidence in the reproducibility of the programme in other countries.
1487	Cities utilizing participative budgeting allow the citizens themselves to decide directly on how a part of..
1488	City-fortress located on the highest peak rock of Montefeltro.
1489	Claims (3) and (5) are addressed against both EURid and TWH.
1490	Clarity on data ownership and adequate data protection are needed to ensure privacy and to avoid themisuse of personal information.
1491	Classic sgrafitto decoration is the largest in Prague.
1492	Classification of causes of death in the demographic analysis of mortality.
1493	Cleaner trucks and buses: Commission consults on tighter emission limits Reducing harmful emissions from trucks and buses is the objective of a draft package, which the European Commission intends to bring forward by the end of 2007.
1494	Clear gifs are tiny graphics with a unique identifier, similar in function to cookies, and are used to track the online movements of Web users.
1495	“Clearly, the sheer size of this vital pipeline is staggering,” said Sherry Carbary, vice president of Boeing Flight Services.
1496	Clearly this is ridiculous.
1497	Click a magnificent glass if you need a hint.
1498	Click here to read it. more Paper on iNTeg-Risk ERRA A1 has won a medal!
1499	Click here to return to the publications list Deluca, P., & Schifano, F. for the Psychonaut 2002 Research Group Searching the Internet for drug-related web sites: Analysis of online available information on ecstasy (MDMA).
1500	Click OK and your desktop and taskbar should now return.
1501	Click on the planet name in the above table for a detailed payout structure and other division information.
1502	Click to go directly to the Q & A sheet on parental concerns regarding the employment of people with a disability.
1503	Click to see who sits on the General Assembly and the Governing Board, and for a brief description of their powers.
1504	Clie MID-Stratford-upon-Avon, BIRCH Consulting is part of the CW Group.
1505	Climatic patterns are a major part of the abiotic setting for the many population and community interactions of a species.
1506	Clim-ATIC WP4 related to the implementation of adaptation demonstration projects, and one of these WP4-projects was located in the County of Sogn og Fjordane.
1507	Clinical decision-making support for treatment of MERS-CoV patients.
1508	Clinical trials are currently taking place around the world to perfect this technology, and Professor Derby says it is moving towards becoming an established form of science.
1509	Closed Selection for the art exhibition is closed.
1510	Close up of the Flögeln house (re)..
1511	Closing the conference will be Thierry Priol, INRIA, Federico Ruggieri, University of Rome, and Professor Depei Qian.
1512	Clothes are the first thing you need to arrange when packing the bedroom.
1513	Cloud computing is also expected to accelerate through public sector buying power.
1514	Cloud computing: the Regulation sets out clear rules on the obligations and liabilities of data processors such as cloud providers, including on security.
1515	Clouds are often compared with GRIDs, SOA, Cluster computing and similar technological approaches of the Future Internet.
1516	CMS prihlásenie História aktualizácie softvéru Kód pre vývojárov Aktualizovať stránku We use cookies to record some preference settings and to analyse how visitors use our web site.
1517	CO2 emissions from TME’s manufacturing companies have been reduced by 31% vs FY 2007.
1518	Coach (Autobus) with driver in United Kingdom Limousine Center ▶ Coach ▶ Coach in the United Kingdom Looking for local companies offering chauffeured service with Coach?
1519	Coastal radar is a powerful tool for observing the surface ocean currents in a quasi synoptic way.
1520	COBWEB attending the Citizens' Observatories Coordination Workshop (Brussels 29th-30th Jan 2012) The co-ordinating partners of all relevant work packages in COBWEB attended this meeting.
1521	Collaboration and project opportunities The collaboration between members is fostered through common projects and initiatives, development of policy papers and events.
1522	Collaborations for multinational studies are not new and have been strongly encouraged over the last years by the drug safety research funded by the European Commission (EC).
1523	Collect all the icons of the level, avoid traps to stay al..
1524	Collected experiences encouraged me to explore and recreate the natural “shape of water” with the same medium, but controlled by human beings.
1525	Collective name of large group of chlorophyll-containing plants, comprising the sea-weeds and various freshwater forms, ranging in size from single cells to long stems.
1526	College Football Helmet Schedules College football helmet schedules for the 2015 season are now available (some in progress).
1527	Color a scenes of the New Year celebration.
1528	COMBACTE-CARE will focus specifically on building capacity in clinical sites in south-eastern Europe, where rates of multi-drug resistance are particularly high.
1529	Combat in modern style your anxiety when travelling through future Earth locations and throwing barrages of bullets from your shadowgun, become the extreme mobile frontline commando, shooting millions like an android.
1530	CombinES will provide sound and specific recommendations to the EU New architecture for the future programming period of structural and cohesion funds for the years 2014 to 2020.
1531	Combining its skills in ink formulation and printed component manufacture, CERADROP accompanies customers right from the start of their projects to ensure that their inkjet fabrication process is operational as soon as their equipment is delivered.
1532	Combining metadata records for individual data resources into a database can offer the user the opportunity to search and query the resulting metadata 'catalogue' in order to track down records which meet their needs.
1533	Come to hear Galbraith and Wray for the most important economic policy event of the year!
1534	Coming along with the creation of new jobs, the rural areas which will be able to offer these supplies for families in the future will keep their attractiveness.
1535	Coming from a sea-faring nation myself, I am very well aware of the key role of the shipping community.
1536	Commended: THE TWELVE MONTHS (DVANACT MESICKU), Czech TV Studio Ostrava, Czech Republic This is an adaptation of a classical fairy tale story similar to Cinderella for a family audience.
1537	Commenting, Jill said: "It is very worrying that as things stand, over a third of Welsh farms could see a ten per cent drop in their income.
1538	Comments from peers are an important generator of enthusiasm and motivation to learn to use tools or play games (Robertson & Howells, 2008).
1539	Comment – The Political Economy Blog and is republished here with permission.
1540	Commercial & Industrial Surveillance System, CCTV and Security Camera Installation.
1541	Commissioned by Eurostat, Katharina Umpfenbach and Krista Timeus of Ecologic Institute edited the climate change and energy chapter.
1542	Commissioner Arias Cañete willalso participate in an informal ministerial roundtable chaired by the Secretary-General and in a panel debate on ‘Mobilizing political momentum for ambitious actions on mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation’.
1543	Commissioner for Climate Action and Energy, Miguel Arias Cañete, opened the conference saying “We know smart grids work.
1544	COM mission to Algiers in January 2010 was an opportunity to discuss on-going issues with Algeria, including foreign direct investment restrictions as well as import procedures, pharmaceuticals and access to ports.
1545	Commoners never really had any rights.
1546	Common memory through education is a viable alternative.
1547	Common ways for community energy in Europe London, Dec 13th: Germany is currently grappling with its much discussed Energiwende or ‘energy revolution’; its ambitious efforts to move towards a full reliance on renewables.
1548	Communauté urbaine de Dunkerque Dunkerque is a commune in the Nord department in northern France.
1549	Community for an age-friendly society For more than 15 years, Empirica has been among the leading European and global institutes undertaking research and advising on the implementation of eHealth systems and solutions.
1550	Companies must submit tenders to provide outsourced cleaning services (public procurement in the case of public clients).
1551	Companies Ostrava - Company catalogue Add the company free Edit this company Karel Vohralík, reklamní činnost Vratimov We are engaged in advertising activities.
1552	Companies Pragu - Company catalogue Add the company free Edit this company At one point you expect to find services that ensure all care about your car.
1553	Companies signed up to the Charter must report annually on these KPIs to measure their progress towards sustainable cleaning.
1554	Companies Znojmo - Company catalogue Add the company free Edit this company We are open to the civic association with members and sympathizers who are not indifferent to what is in their region or community happening.
1555	Companies Znojmo - Company catalogue Current : Main page - Stores and shops - Sales of glass, porcelain and ceramics Sales of glass, porcelain and ceramics There are no companies/no specified companies available in this cathegory.
1556	Comparative analysis of the S&T Cooperation Policy Index with GERD - as proxy of ERA countries' S&T systems development, and scientific co-publications of ERA countries with BIR (2005-2007) as output indicator, was made.
1557	Compared to the humanities` teachers who saw the goal of learning to be striving for good grades, science teachers emphasised the need to educate the students about “how things work.”
1558	Comparing Public, Private, and Hybrid Cloud Computing Options.
1559	Competencies / volunteer missions You want to act for the protection of the environment and the coastlines, you have skills or passion to contribute as a volunteer for the organization: join us!
1560	Competition among archives means that there is a real barrier to interest in meta-search across different providers.
1561	Competition with other full member associations is foreseeable.
1562	Competitive global markets and the spectacular rise of emerging economies do not give us this much time," added Mr Gerbrandy, who will lead the Parliament delegation at the UN Rio+20 sustainable development summit in June.
1563	Competitors also start talking to each other.
1564	Compilation From their first days in 1987 until their break in 1999, HEAVENS GATE were among the top representatives of German Heavy Metal.
1565	Complementary policy efforts include the EU Water Framework Directive and other freshwater legislation, and the Habitats and Birds Directives.
1566	Complete submission guidelines & how-to prepare a well-written abstract uegweek2015@remove-this.
1567	Complex functionality analysis of platform was prepared, shared and improved by partner's comments.
1568	Complying with low-intensity forest management approach they are carried out more often but at lower intensity.
1569	Computations are carried in three spatial dimensions, and resolve multiple scales: the star interiors, the orbital strong field region, and the radiation zone.
1570	Computers and communications are being integrated through alliances of telecommunication companies and software houses providing services and data messaging for networks.
1571	Computer service.
1572	Concerning developed countries, the GGND refers primarily to the unsustainable patterns of energy consumption in the transport and construction sector of the economy.
1573	Concerning policy integration, projects comprehend, for instance, SynKon, POLICYMIX, KNEU, and SPIRAL.
1574	Concluding the Conference, I admitted a dream.
1575	Conclusions prior to 2004 are available via the links below.
1576	Concrete elements and action items were incorporated in the schedule of activities, to reach a common view on the goals and deliverables.
1577	Concurrently, the YSL logo change by Hedi Slimane elicited some vehement opposition on Facebook.
1578	Conferences include a Tutorial track, a peer-reviewed Conference track, Special Sessions and Working Group meetings attended by hundreds of experts in the field from many countries around the world.
1579	Conflict-affected areas and areas with high risk are those with armed conflict, widespread violence and systematic violations of human rights.
1580	Conflict in Iraq and Syria, poverty and unrest in the Horn of Africa and West Africa, and security chaos in Libya have spurred the movement of large numbers of people towards Europe.
1581	Confronting difficulties: overcoming resistance to change – Once you are an official candidate, you must then make sure you are a credible candidate with a real chance of winning.
1582	Connecting cities Building successes Posts Tagged ‘EU 50 urban cases’ Indicators, Curse or Blessing?
1583	Consequently and until the beginning of the 20th century, one recorded more than 300 patents for the corkscrews, which underlines their progression.
1584	Consequently, understanding the role and value of natural capital within the territory covered by Plan Nord seems crucial for the future development of the region.
1585	Considering the differences between the far left and the social democrats, only in a three party context of conservatives (CDU/CSU), SPD as well as the Green Party (at around 14%), a left-wing coalition seems possible.
1586	Considering the scale, the precision of the variables is weak.
1587	Consistent and long term global monitoring of the terrestrial biosphere raised an increasing interest in the context of the global change studies.
1588	Consulting companies could also seek great opportunities on analysing the collected data, in order to offer customised services both to large and small enterprises.
1589	Consuming foods that are high in fibers enable them to feel full and this can support them minimize their food intakes.
1590	Contact Person: This email address is being protected from spambots.
1591	Contact the Instruct helpline if you need further information.
1592	Contact the NLT/ENP Coordinator at This email address is being protected from spambots.
1593	Contact us to find out how we can bring inspiration and innovative thinking into your organisation today.
1594	Content-Language: en Server: Europa Connection: close Other available languages: none EU-US Summit (Brussels, 26 March 2014) and EU-US relations The Leaders of the European Union and the United States of America will meet on 26 March 2014 in Brussels.
1595	Content-Language: it Connection: close The Robot Companions for Citizens is a pilot project in the European FET Flagship Program.
1596	Content-Language: it Connection: close Wastewater for irrigation: ACCBAT projecin Tunisia ACCBAT is a EU funded project aiming to increase water usage efficiency and reuse of treated wastewater for irrigated agriculture in Jordar,Lebanon and Tunisia.
1597	Content-Length: 11750 Connection: close Developer Manual v2.6.5-SNAPSHOT Developer Manual v2.6.5-SNAPSHOT¶ Welcome to the GeoNetwork Developer Manual v2.6.5-SNAPSHOT.
1598	Content-Length: 15556 Connection: close Indico is a free software tool that allows you to manage complex conferences, workshops and meetings.
1599	Content-Length: 16828 Connection: close Follow us on the Social Networks, including the possibility to access the e-Culture Science Gateway from within the Social Network page.
1600	Content-Length: 17637 Vary: Accept-Encoding Connection: close User Scenarios for using the SHIWA Portal The SHIWA Simulation Platform is one of the technical results of the SHIWA project.
1601	Content-Length: 23538 Vary: Accept-Encoding Connection: close The European market for nanocomposites is predicted to grow from 23,000 tons (2006) to 120,000 tons in 2016.
1602	Content-Length: 28541 Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:07:40 GMT Connection: close EMI Agenda at the EGI Technical Conference 2012 As usual, EMI is one of the major contributor for the EGI Technical Forum.
1603	Content-Length: 31410 X-Varnish: 421358083 Age: 0 Via: 1.1 varnish Connection: close Skip to content.
1604	Content-Length: 40918 Connection: close Vary: Accept-Encoding X-Powered-By: Express ETag: "6839183" Set-Cookie: connect.
1605	Content-Length: 53089 X-Varnish: 1178352169 Age: 0 Via: 1.1 varnish Connection: close Skip to content.
1606	Content-Length: 53089 X-Varnish: 1178359481 Age: 0 Via: 1.1 varnish Connection: close Skip to content.
1607	Content-Length: 83767 Vary: Accept-Encoding Connection: close Success criteria for market implementation Version: 1.2 Status: Approved A new version will be created automatically if this content is modified.
1608	Content-Length: 84391 Connection: close Need Help?
1609	Content-Length: 9507 X-Varnish: 421356736 Age: 0 Via: 1.1 varnish Connection: close Skip to content.
1610	Contents and structure of the SolarNext AG websites are copy-right protected.
1611	Continues to perform research and and also directs a team of researchers examining several aspects of climate change.
1612	Continuing cooperation with the municipality (European project SUMAFEST: with SUMAFEST the City of Mechelen aims to make the recreational traffic more sustainable.
1613	Contrary to the other ways of constructing websites you will not need any additional staff to look after the site, since you can do it yourselves.
1614	Convinced by the European project, we are collaborating closely and regularly with European institutions in the areas of freedom, security and justice, and have done so for many years.
1615	Cooling Systems Containing HCFCs New measures regarding cooling systems which contain hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) have been implemented in Indonesia.
1616	Cool technologies was not the only thing in exhibition though; the CELAR t-shirt and the other promotional material available from the booth were definitely a big hit.
1617	Coordination mechanism in the field of drugs At the national level, coordination among different ministries involved in the drugs area takes place through the Inter-ministerial Commission on Drugs (ICD).
1618	Coordinator of CAYDAG for 4 years Senior Expert in CAYDAG for 3 years and has been participating in evaluation process of project proposals mainly related with marine sciences email: esin.
1619	Coping strategies may vary depending on characteristics of the youth.
1620	CORINE Land Cover data base management assistance CORINE Land Cover meta information 4.1.2.
1621	Correction of its results can be often very complex and doing away with the causes a long term effort.
1622	Correlating mozzarella gouda assets to help you its very own development in the body activities and consequently microstructure quantification.
1623	COST Actions can also pave the way to or establish synergies with EU-funded research projects.
1624	Cost effective optical solutions represent the main challenge.
1625	Cost of developing new or improved pharmaceuticals and their validation Potentially millions of Euros (30-50).
1626	Could the ECI become a powerful tool for setting the agenda and forcing the Commission to consider ideas and opinions that might otherwise be overlooked?
1627	Could you first tell me, why did you become an MEP and what are your motivations to go into European politics?
1628	Could you tell something more about your lyrics?
1629	Could you tell us more about it?
1630	Councillor Tom Marshall has questioned why the survey includes questions about drug-taking, (A: This is for nine-year-olds.) relationships with parents, thieving, knives, and drugs."
1631	Council of European National Top Level Domain Registries Association of Internet Country Code Top Level Domain Registries.
1632	Counter-Strike Source - Royal Hack 1. The silent protagonist may have dragon naturallyspeaking trial to himself all the way to the ssas documentation tool, but Gordon Freeman is a name almost every gamer out there has uttered at one point or another.
1633	Countries Kenya, Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda CBI proudly presents below its partner(s).
1634	Country + Address: 8 rue Lanson – CS 10029 51722 Reims France Description: A pioneer since 1912, Le Foyer Reims strives to adapt its stocks to society’s challanges.
1635	Court adviser objects to ‘artificial' calendar Edward McMillan-Scott, a British Liberal who has played a leading role in the ‘single seat' campaign to put an end to the migration, said that the Court ruling might well go against the opinion.
1636	Court upholds EC’s global reach on cartels Judgment signals bad news for electronic goods manufacturers, airlines and car component makers fighting similar battles.
1637	Covering a wide spectrum of texts, the course examines the scriptures of seven major religious traditions, as well as nine lesser-known or smaller faiths, including sacred writings from the ancient Egyptian and Mayan civilizations.
1638	Cows which are infected with S. agalactiae, S. aureus, or Mycoplasma spp. present a risk to non-infected cows in the herd.
1639	Create Account Freshwater pearls head drilled shape white 6mm (1) Sold per strand (40cm, +/- 150 pearls) Beautiful, elegant pearls do not only originate from salt water.
1640	Creating a space for lifelong learning CVO Antwerpen is an adult education provider with several campuses in and around the City of Antwerp in the Flemish region of Belgium.
1641	Creating circular economies that allow us, as far as possible, to consume and produce local energy and food without so many intermediaries, is what we should be aiming for.
1642	Creating conditions conducive to safe investigative journalism and protecting journalists requires continuous efforts.
1643	Creating mobile applications that provide health care services for the elderly, for instance, requires progress in a broad range of areas.
1644	Creating the right conditions for digital networks and services to flourish is a key objective of the Commission’s plan for a Digital Single Market.
1645	Creators of online biodiversity databases should consider whether they have the resources to make their database of such value that other scientists and/or institutions would continue to finance its existence.
1646	CRES was instituted as the national coordination centre in its areas of activity by the Law 2244/94 (Production of Electricity from RES).
1647	Criminal law is used as an example when answering these questions because of its close connections to national sovereignty and constitutional law.
1648	CrisisLab will contribute to the requirements, the use cases and the dissemination activities of the project.
1649	‘Critical Geopolitics’ offers a fresh analytical perspective to understand the competing perceptions of SAARC as a geo-political space.
1650	CRO NGI organises an annual 'CRO NGI Day' to gather users, user representatives of institutions and institutional partners of CRO NGI.
1651	Crossover on October 11, 2012 at 22:12 said: Coca Cola Hellas is also moving its HQ to Switzerland.
1652	Crossover on October 14, 2012 at 14:14 said: Klaus, all these things that you mention are the reason why Greece was the first economy to be hit by the euro crisis.
1653	Csatári has received the Pro Régió Alföldért Díj (Award for the Alföld region), the Pro Régió Government Award, in 2002 the Hungarian Gold Cross of Merit, and in 2010 the Officer’s Cross.
1654	Culture Europe International has become an online magazine, freely available on the website: www.culture-europe-international.org. - more..
1655	Curie login nodes are Curie Extra Large nodes with Nehalem-EX processors.
1656	Curious about the new two-map system of the Second Campaign?
1657	Current candidate and accession countries are not included.
1658	Current knowhow comes 90% from flaming wildfires and unfortunately it does not work well for smouldering.
1659	Currently EU-Russia talks are planned to take place in Moscow at the end of August.
1660	Currently, Germany has a clear stance only on the euro, and even that plan is shaky.
1661	Currently Greek expats must return home to vote on Greek soil.
1662	Currently High Noon Casino is using the Real Time Gaming software to power their casino.
1663	Currently, in the area of HCI, the group is participating in the Spanish CENIT Project Vision, subcontracted by Telefonica I+D and in the FP7 ActiBio project.
1664	Currently is also strategic Director of the CMCC (Euromediterranean Center for Climate Change).
1665	"Currently only 7% of Europe's small and medium-sized enterprises sell products abroad and only 15% of consumers buy online in a different country," said David Borrelli.
1666	Currently the BISE National Coordinators from 17 countries are preparing the BISE National Delegations to the 4th BISE Forum.
1667	Currently, there is a perception that local partners are disadvantaged when faced with the legal and financial might of multinational corporations.
1668	Currently, the security aspect has clearly dominated, with measures focused more on the fight against illegal immigration, rather than on legal migration channels and migrant integration.
1669	Currently, YICT has attracted 36 international shipping lines which provide more than 80 regular shipping services covering the world.
1670	Current members are Gemalto, Giesecke & Devrient, Incard, Morpho, NXP, Oberthur Technologies, Renesas and Trusted Logic.
1671	Current programmes (closed for application) There are 23 organisations from Ghana in our database.
1672	Current R&D activities in information and communication security do not address the problem at a global level, either in terms of the geographical coverage, or in terms of the involvement of all relevant stakeholders.
1673	Customer relationship management Goal: Establish and maintain a good relationship with customers receiving service Development team need to interact with each other inside EGI activities, primarily with OMB, the main customer of the operational tools.
1674	Customers can use them to exchange information with digital displays, manage accounts, compare products, and more.
1675	Customers now choose to use Oyster for more than 80% of all journeys on London’s public transport system.
1676	Cutie young gay Paul sucking and.
1677	Cutting red tape Memo on FP 7 Simplification.
1678	Cuttingthroughthematrix.com. He’s linked there and the links at Sweet Liberty if you’re listening from the Sweet Liberty website and also in several other places.
1679	Cyclofluidic will be jointly owned by Pfizer and UCB, with each company having both a seat and scientific observer rights on the board.
1680	Cyprus 12th country to ratify the ConstitutionComments Off On 30 June 2005 the Cypriot House of Representatives ratified the European Constitution with 30 votes in favor, with 19 against and one abstention.
1681	Czech manufacturers offer consists of the 2000 toys.
1682	Czech network joins forces with CIVINET In the Czech Republic, our NFP makes use of the Czech-Slovak CIVINET (link in Czech) that was founded in 2014 as an official legal entity.
1683	D3: The daylight calculation with the described procedure of the manual is not always applicable, for example when having spaces with windows oriented in different orientations.
1684	D5.1 coverThe European Commission has approved TRANSFORuM's Deliverable 5.1 with the Title "Transformation is possible."
1685	D6.2 Stakeholder Data and PM Framework.pdf This document describes the stakeholders’ input and project management framework for cities, in order to develop the EPIC roadmap.
1686	Dacian Diolos, the EU Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development said that “price signals on the European dairy market show that the Russian ban is starting to hit this sector.
1687	‘Daddy’ hopes to be re-elected for a fifth term, but his health is uncertain.
1688	Daily Archives: January 8, 2013 Emerging leaders International development programme for the leaders of tomorrow’s libraries LIBER is happy to announce the launch of the second LIBER international leadership development programme.
1689	Daniele Munaretto received the BS and MS degrees (with honors) in Telecommunication Engineering in 2004 and 2007, respectively, at the University of Padova, Italy.
1690	Daniel Gros is Director of CEPS.
1691	Daniel: I know, it's pretty funny.
1692	'Danish district heating operators in later years have discovered that large-scale solar heating is not only a politically correct investment, but also a good stroke of business.
1693	Darren: I think it is pretty sad but I think, like I’ve noticed..
1694	DataDot Technology Ltd asset identification technologies have wide product application, and the potential to penetrate global markets in the automotive, marine, clothing and industrial materials sectors.
1695	Data drilling stations are, for example, information extraction and integration methods, which extract and enrich semantics from crude data.
1696	Data on I. ricinus density assessed by dragging the vegetation in 438 sites were cross-correlated with the digital cartography of a GIS, which included the variables altitude, exposure and slope, substratum, vegetation type and roe deer density.
1697	Data Protection Day/4: Take control of your personal data Every time you go online you share information about yourself.
1698	Data show that the larger contingents come from the Middle East (5,800), the Maghreb countries (5,300), the EU (2,600 to 3,000), and Turkey (anywhere between 400 and 1,000).
1699	Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 11:31:29 GMT X-Varnish: 3997393273 Age: 0 Via: 1.1 varnish Connection: close ﻿ Art is the signature of man.
1700	Date: Wed, 08 Jul 2015 08:27:46 GMT Connection: close Looking for my albums?
1701	David Hesketh supported these problems and clearly emphasised the issue for shippers: arriving goods in wrong quality respective wrong quantity or late arrival.
1702	David Nutt offered his thoughts on neuro-enhancement, primarily from the perspective of therapeutic research for psychiatric and developmental disorders.
1703	“David Rennie, 51, the distribution centre’s executive director who was fired last week following an internal investigation, turned himself in to police Monday morning.
1704	David Sheegog on June 7, 2012 at 17:23 said: I’m not sure what point you are trying to make in reply to me.
1705	Day one of the conference is being jointly organized and will be offering an excellent overview of all relevant topics.
1706	D-CENT is bringing together leading European examples that have transformed democracy in the past years, and helping them in developing the next generation of open source, decentralised, and privacy-aware tools for network democracy.
1707	Deadline for registration: 31 March 2015 Click here for the registration form.
1708	Dean Plassaras on April 29, 2013 at 00:29 said: It would help greatly if Germany could stop emphasizing exports to Greece for awhile.
1709	Debate is vigorous between those who support greater centralisation and those, notably the Serbs of Bosnia, who support greater autonomy for the two entities which make up the country (the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska).
1710	Debating feminist critiques of neoliberalism in the context of austerity with Lina Gálvez Muñoz.
1711	Decades ago, both in Austria and in Germany, the Socialists and the People’s Party would have shared almost 90% or more of the votes between them.
1712	Decentralization supports scalability and robustness and facilitates access to the energy market for prosumers, thereby supporting changes to consumer behaviour and social acceptance.
1713	Decisions on both the revenues and the spending side of such a restructured European budget should be taken annually, with the relevant decisions taken by the majority of the member states and in the European Parliament in all matters.
1714	Definition of Emergency protection: Emergency protection is a quick installation of a temporary revetment-type structure made by available material as response to "unexpected" coastal erosion.
1715	Definition of processes resulting in main products, co-products, and secondary products.
1716	Defrosting is needed most frequently at outdoor temperatures between -7 °C und 0 °C and lasts up to 10 minutes, depending on the system’s size.
1717	De Investeerders Club (The Investors Club) is an informal network of some 50 active investors in the Netherlands.
1718	Delay incurred by this kind of suspension may be intolerable to delay sensitive SU services.
1719	Delivering flexibility for growing converged network demands with performance and..
1720	Demand for ITO services is highest in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Scandinavian countries.
1721	Demetris on June 8, 2012 at 19:05 said: How can an economy destroyed by debt be rebuilt?
1722	DEM Module is expected to support both 'push/pull' data transfer models regarding the Aggregation Module, which will be acting as the consumer of the data collected.
1723	Demonstrate clinical and professional competence.
1724	Denis Cooper March 5th, 2013 No, the EU should NOT implement gender quotas for boardrooms.
1725	Denmark has liberal sperm donation policies that appeal to women who want to conceive using artificial insemination.
1726	Denmark indicated it may consider joining not because it is too excited, but because at one point it could be "difficult for Denmark to remain outside" the single oversight.
1727	Denmark is one of the best countries in the world for jobs and has a very low unemployment rate.
1728	Dennis (from Ashoka Berlin) who emphasised the importance of social innovation and entrepreneurship.
1729	Dental equipment financing is one of the types of essential health and medical equipment financing that helps to buy latest cavity filling equipment or advanced whole mouth imaging system.
1730	Dependability - particularly resilience, safety and security - is a more complex issue than ever before for embedded distributed systems in the conventional sense.
1731	Depending on its location and strength, a tropical cyclone is called a hurricane, typhoon, tropical storm, cyclonic storm, tropical depression, or simply cyclone.
1732	Depending on the current value or a large movement in such an indicator, we have decided whether a patient is 'healthy' or 'unhealthy' and whether or not they require treatment.
1733	Description of BTEC L3 Certificate Mechanical Engineering Mechanical engineering is a field with almost limitless opportunities.
1734	Description of Competency in Electrical Power System Protection Arcs at the fault point can cause dangerous or even fatal burn injuries to operating and maintenance workers in the vicinity.
1735	Description of Developing Social Housing Projects One of the characteristics of developing countries is fast growing cities and the lack of affordable and adequate housing.
1736	Description of English Literature: Creative Writing The MSc in Creative Writing develops both creative and reflective understanding of the chosen genre of writing, through courses both creative and literary-critical.
1737	Description of Law (Online Distance Learning) Tailor your LLM degree to meet your professional interests with a free choice of modules from our full range of LLM modules.
1738	Description of No Excuses: Existentialism and the Meaning of Life It is, in a very short phrase, the philosophy of 'No excuses!'
1739	Description of Psychology of Communication Emphasis will be put on operational and relational aspects of communication.
1740	Description of The Inexplicable Universe: Unsolved Mysteries So what is our latest picture of some of the most inexplicable features of the universe?
1741	Description of work to be carried out by the partner(s) sought: The hospitals will host pilot tests for telemedicine systems.
1742	Designed for applications like PC chipsets, set top boxes, personal video recorders, DVD Players and digital TVs, the DesignWare Wireless USB Host is based on the Wireless Host Controller Interface (WHCI) specification.
1743	Designer baby row over US clinic A US clinic has sparked controversy by offering would-be parents the chance to select traits like the eye and hair colour of their offspring.
1744	Designing FRM plans and measures that benefit every single stakeholder, however, is a monumental task.
1745	Design rules with Nail can ruduce friction.
1746	Desi hotnangi sexy kahania3 5 excess of to pity her and meetings completely open and light of.
1747	Despite a limited budget of only €14,501, this grassroots campaign collected over 1.3 million signatures with the help of extraordinarily dedicated volunteers and effective social media.
1748	Despite attempts by some groups of ultras to publicly declare their political beliefs, an indisputable fact that they are not capable of organising mass protests alone for the president elections 2015.
1749	Despite being the most advanced industrialized democracy in the region, Japan is among the 13 countries which have carried out executions every year for the past five years.
1750	Despite fears of bad weather, second qualifying began in hot and humid conditions, providing a good opportunity for dry running following the rain which interrupted Wednesday’s practice and the official test day last month.
1751	Despite financial difficulties and fall-outs with his benefactors, Gutenberg continued to work on his invention over the next ten years, and was finally recognised with a courtly title by the Archbishop von Nassau in 1465.
1752	Despite of all its problems, Italy's voice is heard in Europe.
1753	Despite some quantitative changes in the seizure of certain types of drugs, illegal domestic market trends remain the same for the three leading drugs of marijuana, opium and poppy straw.
1754	Despite the deceptively low buy-in, this git untrack all files delivers some serious gaming capability.
1755	Despite the law obliges to review it, the Spanish Government refuses to do so this year and in 2015.
1756	Despite them, however, problems accumulated from years of prosperity are not yet resolved.
1757	Destroy all vehicles from the U.S.S.R. Tech Tree except Premium and award vehicles.
1758	Detailed discussions were held in interviews with their representatives both from within the consortium and externally.
1759	Detailed programme of the conference The Assembly of European Regions together with Brasov County and the University of Transilvania organised between 7th and 8th May 2015 a Conference on “Innovative Education – A real opportunity for Youth”.
1760	Details about the payment procedures will be notified by e-mail to admitted participants.
1761	Details about the programme can be obtained from Rolf Bass ( This email address is being protected from spambots.
1762	Detained in Petehatniki Detention Facility No. 6, also known as the “Bastille”, in the outskirts of Moscow, the women of Pussy Riot endured the withholding of food, sleep deprivation and interrogations which dragged on for hours.
1763	Determine if the responses and data format of response payload matches expectations.
1764	Determining the right conflict rule is just a question of looking at national constitutional provisions and their proper interpretation.
1765	Determining what’s wrong is simple most of the time, however, not always.
1766	“Detroit debris as a marketing tool is in vogue,” said Varterian, 55, whose where to buy replica ray bans products include cutting boards and tables fashioned in a sprawling former automotive warehouse.
1767	Deutsche Telekom AG (DTAG) is one of the world's leading telecommunications and information technology service companies.
1768	Develop a comprehensive knowledge and critical understanding of the structure and function of the main human systems during exercise.
1769	Developed a GeoPopularity algorithm that computes in real time at the moment the most popular areas of the world and represents them visually.
1770	Developed as part of the KnowSeas project.
1771	Developed a Supported Employment Strategy to help those with a health or disability problem have access to work.
1772	Development and evaluation of a miniaturised videoprobe system including a micro-electronic image sensor, wireless data transfer, post- processing and display as well as micro-mechanical components and localisation capabilities.
1773	Development of quantitative connections between exposure of workers and their determinants remains demanding.
1774	Development of the course material will start in summer 2013 and courses are expected to start mid-2014.
1775	Developments in the ICT-field added to the need for a common set of data protection rules, specifying the Council of Europe Convention.
1776	Developments will occur according to elicited priorities (by infrastructure owners or external adopters) and available resources in the project.
1777	De Venter, Production manager, development of production processes, product testing.
1778	Device allows unique range of settings and thereby also nanofibres types production.
1779	De Vries corresponded with Darwin, and was a (foreign) member of the Royal Society and the Swedish Academy of Sciences.
1780	De Windvogel now works together with 21 REScoops in the Netherlands under the banner of REScoopNL.
1781	D. from Boston University.
1782	Dialogue for progress is taking place in Armenia at the Best Western Congress Hotel, Picasso hall, (1 Italy str., Yerevan).
1783	Did he get mixed up?
1784	Did I already say that CitySDK came into play?
1785	Did you know that the cape great was happen because they have by dehydration.
1786	Die offizielle Homepage eines außergewöhnlichen Quartetts. 30Mai15 Ralph Lauren Enfant There are many vintage Fisher Price toys that sell on Ebay.
1787	Differences between the way politics is discussed in public and commercial TV are visible, but the tendency described as tabloidization is observed in both.
1788	Different experts will often have diverging views about all of these aspects.
1789	Different kind of beautiful Chapter 2: Reunited in Prague!
1790	Differently, we are prepared also to handle external controlling algorithms that can be interfaced with the engine, if coded in C++.
1791	Different OEMs and T1 suppliers are research partners of the VSI.
1792	Different religious visions of the world and of human life encompass diverging judgments concerning the moral status of specific practices and behaviours.
1793	Dina is an Administrative Assistant for ECES’s PACTE project in Madagascar.
1794	D. in Computer Science, again from Columbia University, in 2004.
1795	D. in economics) has been working within fisheries economics since 1998, and has extensive experience in theoretical analysis of fisheries.
1796	D. in political science from Jacobs University Bremen; and he was post-doctoral fellow at the University of St.
1797	D. in Systems Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
1798	Direct and indirect taxes.
1799	Directed by Kim Han-min complete an online assessment the removal of something that a person values different than a Facebook and tactical mastery to cialis sale would now be.
1800	Director General, Department of Globalisation, Development and Partnerships, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, France ‘The contributions need to realistic as well as ambitious.
1801	Disclosure of intent to be a SEPA Scheme-compliant CSM CSMs that wish to disclose their intent to become a SEPA Scheme-compliant CSM are invited to address this intention by letter to the EPC.
1802	Discount Sexy Lingerie including Bridal Lingerie, Pantyhose, Sexy Robes, Bridal Corsets, Sexy Stockings, Sexy Panties, visit us at monetlingerie.com. Xxxnxx bangladeshi big boobs sexy Busty Hot Girl Asha Shah from Jaipur Posing Nude Boobs Tits.
1803	Discover how Toshiba, pioneers in the Ultra HD viewing experience, are employing intelligent upscaling technology to view Full HD content in near-Ultra HD quality.
1804	Discovering The Truth About Installers Many fence companies are available and you have the chance of employing the services of a fencing company of choice.
1805	Discover the programs that actually deliver the goods and can really HELP you to make money and succeed online.
1806	Discussions centred around a report on the EU dairy market situation, published by DG Agri on 22 July and produced in response to a request from EU Heads of State at the European Council in June.
1807	Discussions on regulations means aligning the rules in the EU with those in the US.
1808	Discussions will then continue on 1 November 2013 with invited lawyers from different European countries who will enable a comparative overview on the topic of compensation in nature and water law.
1809	Disease is caused by the rapid multiplication of the bacterium with secreted proteins permitting adhesion and invasion of the cells of the intestine with subsequent further proliferation causing an inflammatory reaction leading to dysentery.
1810	Disparities between pension systems and the issue of mobility within the EU were the key issues at the Hearing.
1811	Dissatisfaction, in Petrov’s view, is great: “Today, it is the elections, tomorrow it might be the announcement of reforms or specific changes that trigger a wave of protest”.
1812	Distortion is eliminated even at top volumes thanks to a robust build and the capacity for 3,500 mW of input.
1813	Distribution and abundance of animal species Observed climate change is having significant impacts on European fauna.
1814	DJ: We’ve got a break coming up, Alan, great stuff.
1815	Dlouhá 705/16, Praha (Prague 1-Staré Město) Sales of light commercial vehicles Mega brands.
1816	DMAE is also involved in the development of icing numerical tools for the prediction of ice accretion on solid walls.
1817	Doc, show us what you have got from concerns As the majority of medical doctors support the issue of public disclosure of benefits resulting from their cooperation with pharmaceutical companies, why haven’t they undertaken any actions in this area so far?
1818	Documents Home Recent Documents Public and technical website - D2.1 Version: 1.0 Status: Approved A new version will be created automatically if this content is modified.
1819	Does a given theory of political legitimacy ascribe these normative advantages to political institutions?
1820	Does a public artwork need to be involved in the problems or discussions of the place?
1821	Does it need to archive large media streams?
1822	Does it ring a bell at all?
1823	Doesn’t he climb up in it or something?
1824	Does the seed money project report have to be verified by the first level control/independent audit?
1825	Does this automatically mean we have anything in common with the Russians except religion?
1826	Does this sound more familiar now?
1827	Doganoglu Balkan Regional Platform for Youth Participation and Dialogue: GET INFORMED!
1828	Do I need to register for any of the talks or workshops?
1829	Dolní novosadská 203/41, Olomouc-Nové Sady We produce submersible pumps for pressure spraying of gardens and houses, cottages and supply water from wells.
1830	Do not try to re-register with the same email address.
1831	Don’t forget about the obligatory visit to one of many Irish pubs!
1832	Don’t forget that ever.
1833	Don't forget that the credibility and mutual solidarity depends on NATO being a community of values - to reduce NATO to a question of military power and interoprability will be the end of the Alliance.
1834	Don't get distract..
1835	Don't suppose there's much more to say, look forward to seeing you all around SkyBlock!
1836	Door-to-door connectivity is an important feature or this group’s travel needs.
1837	Dos Estados, 5001, CEP 09210-580 Rua Comendador Miguel Calfat, 128, Sala 1112 The following Privacy Policy is applicable to all of the services of this website, as well as to any further pages and services that may be added to the site in the future.
1838	Download amplitude and period formula Following-up after an inspection After an inspection Explain the reasons for any follow-up action you decide to take aand your representatives.
1839	Download black and white 2 manual Go inside the building and up the stairs on the right side.
1840	Download book to learn french in pdf Some systems do not have direct operational drivers download links for user manuals and support guides or repair manual, these can be obtained directly from Toshiba support website.
1841	Download bright lite pillow and blanket Red bright lite pillow and blanket and interactive services are unavailable.
1842	Download broadcom bcm5709c firmware update Firmawre instance, Flex has a Broadcom bcm5709c firmware update component, which is a container that lays out upda te components vertically.
1843	Download cabbage patch dolls ebay Sorry about the long post, hopefully it gives cabbage patch dolls ebay some help as to what to hop-up first.
1844	Download civilization 3 conquests cheats I suspect it depends a good bit on the specific burner, but dunno really.
1845	Download empire total war patch fixes Once found, the players only excel high school programs to shoot tрtal emblems to add them to their collection.
1846	Download Finansinspektionen notified to the ESRB that the countercyclical capital buffer rate of 1 per cent continues to apply.
1847	Download game codes for wizard101 The last sequence disallows non-604 area codes if they are dialed without the password.
1848	Download honeywell focuspro 6000 user manual Glitch Survive multi-player team mode Select four player mode focsupro chose honeywell focuspro 6000 user manual but camera mode.
1849	Download module programming in sap abap Some of the.
1850	Download money market vs capital market examples After the giants are about half health, send in barbarians followed by some archers(spread to prevent single mortar attack)where you sent in the giants.
1851	Download moose racing portable tire changer reviews Moose racing portable tire changer reviews location) - Should point to the mainmaps folder.
1852	Download mount and blades warband mods Navigon 2100 1. With the Navigon there is no guessing about which lane I moun t be in.
1853	Download P194 and P195 from the BUILD UP website.
1854	Download Part II: (Size: 7.5 MB) Part III - Conclusions, comments and recommendations (B.
1855	Download perfect medium rare steak temp That depends on your needs.
1856	Download picture collage maker pro key generator The courts may mitigate picture collage maker pro key generator damages to be paid by the losing party who has shown a sincere desire for a compromise.
1857	Download power horse pressure washer manual Shifting your weight correctly on the downswing will help you create rdr social club cheats speed and promote a sweeping motion.
1858	Download quickbooks premier contractor 2007 Click here for an illustration of these points of view in the story of Cьntractor Beauty.
1859	Download sqlite browser for mac Decide many sqlite browser for mac these things ahead of time, or be prepared to make quick sqlite browser for mac while the tech is there.
1860	Download student book club roles From deep within the slums of the techno-metropolis of Midgar, a scant but determined resistance faction called AVALANCHE is desperate in their bid to stop Shinra at any cost.
1861	Download tamil comedy dialog mp3 Moreover, these devices are compact.
1862	Download the final report from the event below, and view the presentations made available by the speakers: EASL thanks Patrizia Burra, Dominique Valla, Siobhan Fahey, and Achim Kautz for their collaboration, and for generously sharing their presentations.
1863	Download the meeting agenda and minutes and the presentations using the link below.
1864	Download the schedule of UNICA GA 2015 events In order to register to the General Assembly please complete and submit this online registration form.
1865	Download this research (PDF, 245kb) Download this research (PDF, 245kb) Trade Statistics - Metal Parts and Components (2014) Do you have questions about this research?
1866	Download this research (PDF, 360kb) Download this research (PDF, 360kb) Descargar eso documento (PDF, 372kb) Product Factsheet - Organic Wine in Europe (2013) Do you have questions about this research?
1867	Download uber tristram leveling guide We check if the keyword is contained in the domain name.
1868	Download white heat book flipkart Please refer to more CBSE Class 9 question papers white heat book flipkart other links.
1869	Do you have any clue?
1870	Do you have the aspirations to develop a long term career within one of the UK’s leading snack food manufacturing businesses?
1871	Do you know what happens when someone “terminates the pregnancy” (to use your nice politically correct language?
1872	Do you plan to work with any other musicians abroad?
1873	Do you put it at the bottom of a bird cage as bird liner?
1874	Do you remember what they said years ago, when Wilson was the President and they had Colonel Mandell House there and House said, “For anything that happens in government, there’s always a good reason given to the public and then there’s the REAL reason.”
1875	Do your homework on everything, and try and always find, and look behind the screen of the Wizard of Oz, to see who's pulling the little levers, and what he wants you to believe.
1876	Do you think I’m kidding?
1877	Dozens of problems can cause engine oil burning.
1878	D. Program prepares students to become independent, interdisciplinary researchers in post-genomic biology and related fields.
1879	Dragica Treursić Uljanić, coordinator of the research in LDA Sisak presented the research results and the video.
1880	Drawing from philosophical ontology and legal philosophy I will establish what the necessary and sufficient conditions are for virtual cybercrime to obtain in order to count as crime under criminal law.
1881	Dresden welcomes over 200 international mobility experts to POLIS annual conference This year's annual conference of the European network POLIS is to be held at the MESSE DRESDEN exhibition centre on 25 and 26 November 2010.
1882	Driven by increased demand for food and growing populations, major changes in rural landscapes during the second half of the 20th century, particularly in Western Europe, have had damaging effects on biodiversity.
1883	Driver Responsibility Insurance Under this insurance the owner of goods is insured against financial losses, resulting from the damage or loss of goods in the course of transportation.
1884	Drive traffic to your site.
1885	Dr Manfred Hochhold is SEPA Project Manager at the Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance.
1886	Drug use among the general population and young people Up to the end of 2011, no survey on drug use among the general population had been conducted.
1887	Druva Mac smokey eye tutorial kit Pvt.
1888	DTU has now teamed up with a number of Ghanese researchers to start work on systematizing seaweed production and refinement in Ghana.
1889	Due to data availability it is difficult to judge the evolution of these programmes or similar ones in 2012 and 2013.
1890	Due to its long-standing tradition, geographical location and high standards, both in teaching and research, the UGR regards internationalization as one of its strategic aims.
1891	Due to our recommendations and the letters sent by our members to their national ministries and at the EU level institutional bodies, ministers from the 28 EU member states met in Milan on the 22-23 of September and reached a common position.
1892	Due to the nature of descriptive frameworks, there are no operational characteristics and comparative overview of the methodologies fell within this category.
1893	Due to this reason our FLOW WATER 'startup' is exactly as named above!
1894	Duncan Russel is leading WP7 and co-leading WP2.
1895	Duration of Talks: 20 Minutes + 5 Minutes Discussion Please submit a pdf-Version of the Slides, to be published on the Internet (possibly reduced by slides which you don’t want to be published on the internet) to program(at)smart-systech.eu.
1896	During 2008–13 the reported incidence rate ranged from 3.4 per 100 000 inhabitants in 2011 to a low of 2.0 per 100 000 inhabitants in 2011.
1897	During 2014 we are also providing a series of one day workshops that bring together senior professionals to learn and discuss new issues and trends within their particular area of expertise.
1898	During a later stage, expedition members will be selected from this registry.
1899	During and after major air pollution events, the number of people suffering heart attacks and respiratory problems is known to increase.
1900	During a restructuring phase that took place between April and August, Zorbas took over responsibility for the role of CEO, following the planned departure of Alain Heureux.
1901	During combat in 1945, he faced more technically advanced American fighters, shooting down more than 10 of them.
1902	During FP7, COST Actions followed the domain structure on the left side navigation.
1903	During her time with the EU Naval Force the ship will deter and disrupt piracy around the Horn of Africa.
1904	During his career, Béla has been working with various underdeveloped regions and settlements to devise strategies and projects to tackle serious labour market problems.
1905	During his presentation Klemen Robnik from Cyberpipe showed some statistics about the usage of Open Source Software in the film and broadcasting industry.
1906	During its storage, transportation and application it is heated to high temperatures so, for those working with bitumen, hazards do exist, although these can be easily managed.
1907	During machining of impellers, vibrations of the thin-walled blades occur due to their low stiffness and the excitation by the tool engagement.
1908	During operation, electrodes around the panel's edge distribute a low voltage (approx. 1 to 2V) charge from a high frequency (100kHz) AC source across the conductive layer.
1909	During our office hours the research library, documentation department, several on-line databases central and the historical collections are at the disposal of the visiting experts.
1910	During such a dialogue, the new EU high representative should stress the overwhelming importance for Turkey of its security and economic anchorage to the West in general and to the EU in particular.
1911	During that period the ACE has made a number of significant achievements and established itself as an essential interlocutor for EU policy and legislation that affects the quality of the built environment.
1912	During the Bucharest Pogrom, official records reveal that a total of 125 Jews were killed and a small numbers of others wounded.
1913	During the climate conference, there was a storm in the Philippines with countless dead and extensive devastation.
1914	During the Consensus Meeting (Step 2), all evaluators come together to review and discuss the first available provisional ranking based on their individual scorings and possible discrepancies.
1915	During the course of 2003, the access to a historical archive of meteorological data will make it possible to test and calibrate the quantitative yield forecast against a statistically valid series.
1916	During the course the students will visit Nyenrode Business University, which is the only private university in the Netherlands and was founded by leading Dutch corporations in 1946.
1917	During the debate the responsible standing committee can adjust the Dutch position.
1918	During the discussion that took place at the National Assembly some deputies raised questions about the Treaty.
1919	During the Forum the new SWITCH-Asia publication on Resource Efficient Indicators for a Green Asia was also launched.
1920	During the Health Literacy Conference there will be more presentations by researchers from the IROHLA project.
1921	During the last 10 minutes, add the beans.
1922	During the last decade, change has come to the countries of the Arab world, Brazil, Spain, and more.
1923	During the next three years, the relationships between Formez and the Chinese Institute for Public Administration will be augmented: the course on Disaster Management carried out in Shanghai in May 2011 was a significant example.
1924	During the port visit a delegation of the Seychelles Coastguard was hosted for Local Maritime Capacity Building, supporting the EUCAP Nestor initiative to build up maritime capacities in the region.
1925	During the weekends this home for elderly persons employs two workers with learning disabilities.
1926	During this conference, professionals working on elderly safety in Europe will get the opportunity to exchange knowledge and to present research results.
1927	During this recession Mc Donald’s went after the Starbucks market by offering their high end coffees and don’t forget that healthy demographic that they are courting now.
1928	Du to the weakness of the Euro only very few will afford to go to Switzerland.
1929	D., which he received with honors in 2001.
1930	Dynamic rules can evolve according to previous experience; this can be done employing advanced AI derived techniques, which try to mimic human thought processes, such as neural networks, genetic algorithms, classifier systems and so on.
1931	EABC does not accept any responsibility for any loss, disruption or damage to your data or your computer system which may occur whilst using material derived from this website.
1932	Each chapter explores a key topic in social psychology (such as attitudes, close relationships, individual differences, conformity, group processes and obedience) from a range of different theoretical perspectives.
1933	Each click will rotate your text by 90 degrees (click once to point the text vertically downward and twice for upward).
1934	Each country has its own reality, its own policies.
1935	Each domain uses a subset of the applications available in the MIRROR AppSphere.
1936	Each funded programme has to be the result of the collaboration between enterprises and research centres and has to consider expenses in between 7 and 10 million €.
1937	Each grave should have a description informing about the name, the date of birth and death of the person.
1938	Each grid cell has the following information: Note: The water depth values are in meters with reference to LAT.
1939	Each HAIC partner offers the multi-disciplinary expertise which is required in order to impact the aeronautical sector and to provide the expertise needed to meet the expectations from the participants, the industry and the European Commission.
1940	Each lap of the 13.62km La Sarthe circuit sees a cumulative charge of 3.5MJ.
1941	Each member of the network agrees to train its own energy specialist on the training days provided by eza! and to implement the quality assurance system provided by eza!
1942	Each module is worth 20 credits.
1943	Each must email me a number between 0 and 1 (including 0 and 1).
1944	Each of the bars in the chart below represents the additional production in each year compared to 2006.
1945	Each of them is offering one or more cloud services.
1946	Each of these steps is described in detail in the following sub-sections.
1947	Each of these WPs will produce several deliverables.
1948	Each table in the database is loaded as a type; to combine information from different database tables in a mapping, use the Join function, which has also been improved.
1949	Each year, genetically modified Bt crops are planted on around 60 million hectares worldwide.
1950	Each year on 9 November, one of Europe’s highest representatives, delivers a speech to present their views on Europe’s past and future.
1951	Each year, they develop hundreds of products at the forefront of innovation.
1952	Earlier test results obtained by using the above cited CE Test Method remain valid and can be considered as equivalent to the EN ISO test results.
1953	Earlier, these could only be partially corrected by dangerous chemical processes, which have several negative side effects.
1954	Earlier this month, the Parliament already sent a very clear signal.
1955	Early awareness of potential threats posed by these technologies will better prepare Europe to take appropriate preventative measures.
1956	Early Prince2 offers official Prince2 training courses and allows big discounts on early bookings for the courses.
1957	Earning an online degree in accounting is the first step in a career in accountancy duties.
1958	EASA is planning a workshop on this in a few weeks time, where we will try to impress on them that gratuitously increase bureaucracy and cost has nothing to do with better training and safer pilots.
1959	Easily accessible by anyone (or any hacker).
1960	Easy reachable with ATAC public transportation (23, 670) and few hundred meters away from Alfredo Berra Stadium.
1961	Easy to use with helpful voice narration, clear instructions and colourful graphics.
1962	Eccentricity The width of the highlight, simulating how polished or rough the surface appears.
1963	ECDC publishes monthly measles monitoring update13 Jul 2011 ECDC is monitoring measles transmission in these countries and produces epidemiological updates.
1964	ECHA's sister agencies, the European Medicines Agency and the European Food Safety Authority presented their views on the two tests as well as case studies demonstrating their scientific applicability.
1965	ECM with dokoniSUITE allows organisations to efficiently build, manage and structure corporate repositories for improved organisational productivity and efficiency in order to stay competitive.
1966	ECNP would like congratulate the 2013 winners of the ECNP Seminar Award and ECNP Fellowship Award.
1967	Eco-Benin is now well-known among tour operators and journalists in France and the Benelux.
1968	Eco-friendly features and long-life components help save on operating costs and protect the environment.
1969	Economics as the science that studies “human behavior as a relationship between ends and scarce means” (Robbins 1932 p.16) is poised to prescribe normative antidotes to the calamities and acts of man that plague today’s financial and economic markets.
1970	Ecosystems Technology and Design for Nanoelectronics Managing Director: Dr.
1971	Ecuador justified the measure on the basis of alleged devaluations of the currencies in these two countries, according to a mechanism foreseen in Article 98 of the Cartagena Agreement.
1972	EDITORIAL EU-ETS: Does it have a future?
1973	Editor(s): Fay Huang and Reen-Cheng Wang Motion Generation for Glove Puppet Show with Procedural Animation Research Article in Arts and Technology.
1974	EDM is now gradually making Europeana fit within a networked data environment.
1975	Educated, secular Africa with bright young minds could benefit both themselves, Europe and rest of the world.
1976	EEPOS stands for Energy management and decision support systems for Energy POSitive neighbourhoods.
1977	EFA MEP Frieda Brepoels was elected mayor of her home town of Bilzen whilst party leader Bart De Wever triumphed in Antwerp.
1978	Effective since 1.8. 2013 new luminaires from LEIRA, RUNDO and LINA families have been added to HALLA XPRESS range.
1979	Effie: Well, you know what I told someone today?
1980	Efforts are being made to find solutions in hardware (HW) and software (SW) compatibility (support for joint HW and SW platforms), that will improve robustness and safety of the system as a whole.
1981	Efforts will be made to ensure that the International Visegrad Fund plays an increasingly prominent role in this sphere, through financing of projects on cultural exchanges, collaboration of academic centres and the activation of local communities.
1982	EFL stays on your side as reliable partner and connects the forerunners in European housing.
1983	EFP Brief No. 172: Sustainable Development Scenarios Spain There are no upcoming events at this time.
1984	EGAN cannot be held responsible for any damage or loss caused by any inaccuracy in this site, or in linked sites/pages.
1985	Eggo Müller addressed forms of participatory television in the Dutch TV Lab, which presents pilots for future shows on Dutch public television.
1986	E.g. good quality food, green energy, education, care services, machines that take the drudgery out of life, clean water – the list in endless.
1987	EGU members are automatically subscribed to receive the newsletter, though they can unsubscribe at any moment using the relevant link on the newsletter emails.
1988	EHTEL and ESQH Structures Or more cost-effective?
1989	EIARD members are requested to nominate national nodes in their respective countries to contribute to EIARD and to catalyse the use of EIARD-InfoSys.
1990	Either way, you would use the same mechanism of searching for BSCW groups in the invitation form.
1991	Electrical boilers are designed for constant connection to a fixed 3 phase electricity system but version 6 kW and 9 kW can also be conected to 1 phase electricity system.
1992	Electric effect on a living human being is analyzed by looking at the legal and electrotechnical aspects.
1993	Electricity grids, oil and gas plants, water supply systems, financial infrastructure, traffic management – they are all vulnerable.
1994	Electricity prices are changing, find out why.
1995	Electronic components, electrical machines and transformers, parts, electrical distribution and control equipment parts.
1996	Electronic Whiteboards - Panaboard is a revolutionary whiteboard that allows information to be effectively shared between presenters and participants, and even with people who cannot attend.
1997	Eleven Partners attended the meeting where the structure of the project was defined.
1998	Eliminate travel and other costs associated with attending classroom seminars.
1999	Elzbieta Mudiuk May 1st, 2015 Religions should not to share, many people look at religion from the perspective of policy …… Daniele Laganà May 1st, 2015 Everybody should be abe to express his religious belief publicly and privately!
2000	EMA also works to ensure good con-ditions for international students and graduates in Europe and to improve the quality of Erasmus Mundus study programmes.
2001	Email Address (Nevermind this field if you have CSS turned off)(Nevermind this field if you have CSS turned off) Просто самой Америке надо менять свою стратегию холодной войны и недружелюбности к России.
2002	E-mail: françThis email address is being protected from spambots.
2003	Email: secretariat@votewatcheurope.eu VoteWatch Europe has collected data on the voting records of all 28 EU member state governments in the Council from July 2009 to the present (more than 500 final votes as at April 2014).
2004	Email this article (Login required) Email the author (Login required) National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad, India Keywords Earthquake GPS Historical seismology Ionosphere Irpinia earthquake Italy Mt.
2005	Email: This e-mail address is being protected from spam bots, you need JavaScript enabled to view it The English folder can be downloaded HERE.
2006	Email us if you'd like to cooperate at s.moroz@ewp.eu Sergiy Moroz is Policy Director at the European..
2007	EMAR²RES intends to provide a forum for interaction between Europe’s Marine and Maritime research communities, so that they can collectively work towards enhanced capabilities.
2008	Emerging academic research work has adapted and applied some of the models provided by the industry coalitions.
2009	Emissions per head, at 4 tonnes per year (2004), are below the 30-city average of approximately 5 tonnes per year.
2010	Emissions) When using the EEA greenhouse gas data viewer is it possible to identify/separate ETS and non-ETS emissions?
2011	Emory University School of Law offers graduates of US and foreign law schools the opportunity to pursue the master of laws degree from one of the top nationally ranked law schools in the United States.
2012	Employee deductions and pay rates are some of these changes.
2013	Employees will be selected by number of kilometres driven (over 2,000 km monthly or 20,000 km yearly).
2014	Employers in four types of businesses: banks, credit unions, grocery stores, and retail stores were surveyed.
2015	Employing the biggest property organization in Calgary can guarantee the folks on research that they’ll find a house that fits their needs out.
2016	Encircled numbers mark the locations where the observations and the broadcasting will take place.
2017	Encourage your kid to actively participate in the whole process: remove the fruit from the fridge, put a jug on the table, then relax and watch.
2018	End-to-End (E2E) Security: In this scenario, cloud users do not rely on any trusted third party.
2019	Energy Cities approves this statement and reminds its point of view published in its opinion paper on the Energy Efficiency Plan (EEP) in April 2011.
2020	Energy Development Strategy (adopted every five years for a period of at least 20 years), and Programme for the implementation of the Energy Strategy (for a period of five years).
2021	Energy efficiency (EE) improvement in LIH is the focal point of ELIH-med, the involvement of inhabitants (tenants) of LIH in a large-scale pilot experimentation will be very important for the success of the project.
2022	Energy Efficiency for Refrigeration Systems EnerEfficiency staff is responsible for the monitoring of the refrigeration system.
2023	Energy efficiency - Smart Cities Initiative The Smart Cities Initiative aims to improve the energy efficiency and to deploy renewable energy in large cities beyond the levels envisaged for the EU energy and climate change policy.
2024	Energy formerly converted into heat, and thus wasted upon every application of the brakes, is now very efficiently converted into additional power.
2025	Energy monitor data visualisation tool.
2026	Energy sources without nuclear contributions would be problematic and its economic weight would be enormous.
2027	Energy, territories and living community.
2028	Eng2Guj software is very useful to the people who wants to type letter or any other documents in Gujarati using computer but do not know Gujarati typing in computer.
2029	Engaged Mutual Learning Workshop on Business Models Title: Engaged Mutual Learning Workshop on Business Models Contact person: dag.
2030	Engagement in various post-conflict settings over the past decade has led individual countries and organisations to work on enhancing the coherence and effectiveness of their respective instruments.
2031	Engaging the repository community is an activity that is undertaken by DRIVER partners in order to engage the community with the DRIVER project as much as possible.
2032	Engineering samples are available for immediate delivery.
2033	Engin Isin, Open University, Chief Editor of the journal Citizenship Studies The European Union Democracy Observatory is an excellent source of information on citizenship in Europe.
2034	English Language Requirements TOEFL paper-based test score Requirements for Commerce (Sustainable Business)Year 12 Senior Certificate or equivalent from a recognised institution.
2035	Enhanced legitimacy might also facilitate a move towards a more political European Union, simply because in the end the main guidelines set by the Commission will be a result of the citizens' vote.
2036	Enhanced Security Engagement: I can see the EU balking at this proposal: “We are witnessing an increasing desire by many in the region for outside players to have a larger security and military presence and engagement plan in the region.
2037	Enjoy Kerala with Ayurveda resorts information, budget holidays package for Kerala, online tours package booking facility for kerala and many more information for kerala.
2038	Enrollment in Master in European Law and Policies is open all year round.
2039	Enshrined in the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU is the need to reform the principles of interaction between trade unions, employers, civil society organizations and the state in solving of socio-economic problems of the country.
2040	Entertainment At Yas Island in Abu Dhabi, you can engage in a multitude of action sports and leisure-based activities.
2041	Enter thoughts on optimum currency areas and their potential as a guide for a smoother functioning of the Eurozone.
2042	Enter your video in one of the categories and you will have a chance to win $500.
2043	Entrepreneurs often fail to meet buyer demands for quantity, quality and timeliness due to poor product standardization and lacking technical capacity.
2044	Environmental governance: This initiative seeks to promote environmental protection and address the issue of climate change.
2045	Envisiontec was funded in 2002 in Marl, Germany.
2046	EOTA will publish EADs on its website for download the moment the reference has been published in the OJEU.
2047	EPAD is pioneering a new, more flexible approach to clinical trials of innovative Alzheimer's disease treatments designed for people who have the disease but have not yet developed dementia.
2048	EPC Blog (December 2012): SEPA Credit Transfer and SEPA Direct Debit Rulebooks: Next Scheme Change Management Cycle Takes Place in 2014.
2049	EPC may, at its discretion, change these Terms and Conditions (‘terms’).
2050	EPN REPORT – TTIP: Fears of the Unknown The European Professionals Network (EPN) was pleased to assist the CESI lunch debate on “TTIP: Fears of the Unknown” on April 28th, 2014.
2051	EPP is closely followed by the ALDE group (90%) and then by the S&D group (85.8%).
2052	EPSO concluded that the circumstances of this case were an "unfortunate concordance of events".
2053	EPSO Exams and Preparation: progress in verbal reasoning This post has been deleted by the user.
2054	Equality of respect, it is argued, requires us to respect the moral value of the moral beliefs of others even when they are wrong.
2055	Equally, countries who try to "go it alone" tend to run into problems; they get punished by capital outflows; some of their stimulus leaks into imports from other countries and they get nothing in return.
2056	Equally important is that we better understand when humans prefer a conversational agent interface.
2057	Equally skilled at.
2058	Eradication could be an option under specific conditions of known epidemiology in areas experiencing sporadic disease or spread to new areas.
2059	Erasmus Students at the University of Porto In Porto, while some courses are taught in English, the majority are in Portuguese.
2060	Erchi 17.11.2013 at 09:03 said: Is it still possible to participate in closed alpha or is the recruiting finished?
2061	Eric has 25+ years of experience in the Information Systems, Telecoms and Datacenters industries, in operational and managerial positions across Europe, Africa and China.
2062	Eric Holder made this rather startling confession in testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Wednesday, The Hill reports.
2063	Ernestine took Maurice to the place where the hat had disappeared.
2064	ESA 95, point 10.56 states that changes in inventories in constant prices can be calculated by deflating entries into and withdrawals from inventories separately with appropriate price indices.
2065	Escolano holds a degree in Economic and Business Sciences from the Autonoma University of Madrid and followed an Advanced Management Programme at IESE Business School.
2066	ESDN Conference 2015 in cooperation with the incoming Luxembourg EU Presidency The ESDN Conference 2015 will take place in November 2015 in cooperation with the incoming Luxembourg EU Presidency.
2067	ESIA feels that a uniform approach is highly desirable in which trade secrets are treated as a form of intellectual property.
2068	ESI TBVI, started in May 2008 and was closed in May 2010 and established appropriate linkage between projects supported by the European Commission, and global initiatives aiming at the development of new vaccines against tuberculosis.
2069	ESNC to Reward Ideas for a Connected World The Internet of Things and Industry 4.0 are currently top of the list for both the digital economy and traditional industrial sectors.
2070	Especially active employment policy, labour market development and modernization and improvement of employment services belong to areas of interest Employment Team.
2071	Especially Dutch Royal family, they control our system of course and still are in power, as the details, of course, that they are not in power, especially through our education that the royal family has stepped back.
2072	Especially emergency time, after 5pm, you pay $500 just to cross the door before they look at the thing, and then all the rest of that on top of it; that’s why they go into it.
2073	Especially in a market with Davey tinkering and DECC idiots.
2074	Especially in built up areas like the Rhein-Main region, choosing to cycle alleviates pressure on the roads and results in an improvement of local public transport networks.
2075	Especially in the Greek case official creditors worsening the situation must not be rewarded financially.
2076	Especially the BSR's brick architecture in the former area of the Hanseatic League displays an excellent chance to find transferable methods and solutions.
2077	Especially the following topics are in the focus of the working group: - developing the theoretical discussion on mediatization and related questions of change.
2078	Especially the panel in the middle catches our attention with its expressive colour palette.
2079	Especially the US has fostered their research activities, supported by a number of public funding agencies (for example the National Science Foundation and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency).
2080	Essay writing help for UK students.
2081	ETPN’s White Paper will actively contribute to shaping the three pillars of Horizon 2020 – Excellence in Science, Industrial Leadership and Societal Challenges.
2082	ETRDL is a distributed collection, consisting of the set of the local collections.
2083	ETSC is now hopeful that a target to reduce serious injury will follow suit quickly and that concrete measures will follow without delay.
2084	ETSC welcomes the inclusion of safer road design for vulnerable road users in the urban mobility package but says this aspiration must be followed up with specific measures such as EU guidance on traffic calming measures.
2085	EU-AIMS was also presented and the project was highly rated.
2086	“EU citizens who move to a Member State of which they are not nationals may be excluded from entitlement to certain social benefits during the first three months,” Advocate General Melchior Wathelet wrote.
2087	EU farmers cry foul and say they are facing unfair competition.
2088	EuFoA Director, Mr Eduardo Lorenzo Ochoa, comments: “This text is meant not only as a tribute, but also as a call for both historical justice and historical reconciliation.”
2089	Eugenics is a big, big part of it all.
2090	EU institutions should keep their tentacles away from social issues.
2091	EU leaders are not ONE - They are not really united.
2092	EU migration policy should therefore take into consideration a sectoral approach when seeking to attract third-country nationals to the EU.
2093	EU - Mobility Management Monitor (EU-MMM) Here you find a comparative analysis of all Mobility Management Monitors, for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009.
2094	EU" on the grounds of several national, international and Community trademarks registered by Candy and/or its affiliates, manly consisting in figurative trademarks containing the term "Candy".
2095	EU policies and declarations on UN-related issues View EU statements on peace and security issues around the world, including the EU's foreign and security policy, the Middle East Peace Process, disarmament, terrorism, conflict prevention, and more.
2096	EUR 0: Course + course materials + housing The transfer Utrecht to Berlinis included in the course fee.
2097	EUR 1035: Course + course materials + housing Utrecht Summer School doesn't offer scholarships for this course.
2098	Eur.) defines requirements for the qualitative and quantitative composition of medicines, the tests to be carried out on medicines and on substances and materials used in their production.
2099	EU reform- proactive October 22nd, 2014 @Tarquin,- My dear island friend, …umpiring again?
2100	Eurescom manages R&D programmes and projects for its members and others.
2101	Eurobonds can only be envisaged when the budget and economic policies of Member States are brought under the Community method, when the EU can control national fiscal policy.
2102	EuroGOOS is an Association of Agencies, founded in 1994, to further the goals of GOOS, and in particular the development of Operational Oceanography in the European Sea areas and adjacent oceans.
2103	EuroGPS SafeDrive is a GPS-based vehicle speed monitoring and alerting system with a state-of-the-art centralized POI management, and automatic Web-based POI database distribution and update into the plug-and-play GPS device.
2104	EuroHealthNet is contributing to the work on healthy lifestyles.
2105	Euro must change, or it will become soon a museum item.
2106	European Academy for Taxes, Economics & Law Armenian protests threaten regional stability The ongoing protests over electricity prices are a danger to the Sargsyan government, according to Strafor, the global intelligence company.
2107	European Anti Poverty Network (EAPN) Ireland Part of the European Anti Poverty Network.
2108	Europeana Sounds will make audio content from memory institutions easily accessible - a much-needed gateway to Europe’s incomparably rich sound and music collections.
2109	Europeana's Rights Labelling Campaign reaches its final phase In 2013 Europeana started a rights labelling campaign with the goal to have no more digital objects in the database without a rights statement.
2110	European Commissioner for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, Maria Damanaki, said: "Today's agreement builds on the Atlantic Action Plan we put forward this month.
2111	European companies turn to eco-innovation to tackle rising input costs and scarcity of materials The competitiveness of European businesses is increasingly vulnerable to growing materials scarcity which causes price volatility.
2112	European Coordination Via Campesina from the Public Consultation of the European Commission, 2013 2014 International Year of small scale sustainable Family Farming. 3p.
2113	European Court of Auditors confirms that a Single Seat in Brussels would generate significant savings every year.
2114	European Court of Auditors (ECA) special reports are published throughout the year, presenting the results of selected audits of specific EU budgetary areas or management topics.
2115	Europe and Central Asia: How does inequality between men and women affect development?
2116	European Digital Archive of Soil Maps (EuDASM) – Soil Maps of Asia DVD-ROM version.
2117	Europe and its member states have set ambitious goals for both climate mitigation and adaptation.
2118	European entrepreneurs prefer protected sectors Business creation is not as dynamic in Europe.
2119	European interested stakeholders (from agencies, authorities, institutions, industries, transport operators) are invited to register for membership in accordance with the CEN Rules for CEN Workshops and to provide comments to the published Business Plan.
2120	European machine tool builders want to keep strategic know-how in Europe whilst increasing their global reach.” he added.
2121	European markets account for more than a half of its external trade (54%), even though its links with Russian economic players are still important.
2122	European perspectives shine the spotlight on cloud computing for the Digital Agenda, with a keynote from Mario Campolargo, Director DG INFSO Emerging Technologies and Infrastructures, European Commission.
2123	European Policy Network on School Leadership aktiv 2 dage, 15 timer siden aktiv 1 uge, 2 dage siden aktiv 1 måned, 2 uger siden aktiv 1 måned, 2 uger siden This project has been funded with support from the European Commission.
2124	European political identity depends on looking inward and outward.
2125	Europeans concerned with potential health risks of Electromagnetic FieldsComments Off A Eurobarometer survey published today indicates that one in three Europeans is concerned about the potential health risks of Electromagnetic Fields (EMF).
2126	Europeans have been united thus far, but they have not been as forceful as the United States has been when it comes to dealing with Putin.”
2127	European Soil Data Centre (ESDAC) Cover Management factor (C-factor) European Commission, Joint Research Centre The C-factor dataset is in Raster format.
2128	European Standardisation - Standards in Support of Innovation Notice: Please click on the images to view them FULL SIZE.
2129	Europe has an advantage over the US, China and India, but still lacks the di-versity of courses and universal English language distribution.
2130	Europe has, of course, been engaged in a process of unification for more than half a century now, but its unity is not complete.
2131	"Europe in Harmony has brought together a huge variety of backgrounds, all singing from the same song sheet!
2132	Europe in particular is among the top positions in the world for the number of cases of colorectal cancer (25 percent of the all cases) and prostate cancer (32 percent of the all cases), and it is even more significant if we consider its surface.
2133	Europe is the most, and Asia the least "architected" region of the world.
2134	Europe must be ready to deliver, and to do so it needs better plans than these.
2135	Europe should be united by it’s diversity.
2136	"Europe's reindustrialisation measures should prioritise excellence created through the Horizon 2020 programme and the rapid industrial application of new technologies generated through RDI activities.
2137	Europol Platform for Experts (EPE) LeafletSecure web platform for specialists in a variety of law enforcement areas.
2138	Europol’s close cooperation with the European Traffic Police Network (TISPOL) contributed to the success of Operation Trivium.
2139	Europol will accept no responsibility or liability for the material on this site.
2140	"Eurosceptics are very important to us because they pick up our failings," he noted.
2141	EUROSTAT provides information on value added at factor cost and agricultural labour input.
2142	EVA – EVA represents 24 European collective management organisations for fine arts, photography, illustration, design and other visual works for close to 100,000 authors.
2143	Evaluating surveillance strategies for the early detection of low pathogenicity avian influenza infections.
2144	Evaluating the EU’s Fight against Illegal Logging Twelve years after the European Union launched a plan to tackle illegal logging, independent evaluators are assessing progress and shortcomings.
2145	Eva Přehnalová - Lékárna U Svatého Josepha The offer of drugs and pharmaceuticals.
2146	Even before I spoke I could see my counterparties thinking: “He would say that, as a Greek economist, wouldn’t?”
2147	Even dollars paid to the Arabs (by the RoW that holds dollars) for oil will ultimately end up sitting at the Fed and they (the Arabs) will too have the same options on how to use them as described above.
2148	Even during weekdays there… Università Commerciale Luigi Bocconi, Italy You can stay at university residence Anonymous student reviewed: During my stay in Milan I have resided in a residence.
2149	Even if I hated it, I did know I was purely “goods” for the men…but I hoped to find love.
2150	Even if the correct analogies are found, any solution will affect some groups more than others.
2151	Even if this course is taught at Lithuanian higher education establishments, it is limited to the analysis of cases and legal regulation.
2152	Even in Ontario the most densely populated p Best Site Good Work http://makenmedia.
2153	Even more worryingly, a major opportunity to make a decisive impact on poverty may be undermined and lost.”
2154	Even on election night Mr Vucic said that to him a goal number one was EU to open the first negotiation chapters this year and Serbia to be ready for membership in 2018.
2155	Even one of the more respected Polish weeklies published his obituary which was simply a summary of Baltazar; with no verification.
2156	Even outwardly stable countries, such as Algeria and Saudi Arabia, could face dangerous succession crises.
2157	Even so, the programme of revision is not expected to be complete until 2012.
2158	Even the code of your Internet site plays an important role.
2159	Even those front men will only know and be told what their part in this whole world agenda is, and NO MORE.
2160	Even though it’s in the realm of FICTION, we accept the reality of it when it actually occurs in life because we’ve been programmed to accept it through the fictional work.
2161	Even though not stated explicitly, jurisprudence confirms that shapes and colours per se are considered to be marks as well.
2162	Even though the cadastral digital database (SPEK) is centralized, up to this date the law does not provide for on-line access to information.
2163	Even though the figures vary considerably from country to country, it is clear that several other socialist television stations were also rather open to Western programming.
2164	Even through Van Rompuy and his co-authors carefully avoid potential divisive terms like “sovereignty transfer” and “euro bonds,” the plans stand little chance of succeeding.
2165	Events of the past months and our partners' reactions prove that irrespective of obstacles placed in our path, our vision remains joint and strong.
2166	Eventually, he was left alone on the way of duty.
2167	Eventually I’ll get these links up if XplorNet allows me to use my service that I’m paying for.
2168	Eventually, new concepts and knowledge from open data may results in new innovative environmental tools and information products, with benefits for other scientific fields and water managers.
2169	Eventually they said: we settled on a threat of global warming, which we will claim is caused by the public.
2170	Event - World Press Photo 09 Exhibition in Brussels This year's last World Press Photo Exhibition in Belgium starts from 09 December.
2171	Even when an eviction is considered to be justified, it can only be carried out when appropriate procedural protections are in place.
2172	Even when he was running in the U.S. for candidacy he kept making mistakes, tremendous mistakes and he was very laughable, but they always find jobs for the boys as they say, so he was picked for this job.
2173	Ever greater consumption of resources is a driver of growth.
2174	Everybody is using their own property to share blueprints and to manufacture from those blueprints.
2175	"Everybody recognises that there are many unmet needs for most patients with life-threatening diseases.
2176	Everybody’s so ignorant today, and all greened out as they come out of school they haven’t a clue of the past at all.
2177	Every day Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, remembers all other European peers that debt is the problem, not a solution.
2178	Every individual can proof here his competency.
2179	Every little tiniest change in culture or direction in anything to do with the public is heavily debated and drafted up and gone over and re-debated and all the rest of it, until it's perfected, and then it's implemented upon the public.
2180	Every month sees a new record in sea lion 'stranding', mostly pups, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
2181	Every month the customers of Opower partner utilities receive a Home Energy Report together with their electricity bill.
2182	Every month the Moon completes a cycle, starting as a complete circle (at full moon), shrinking to become almost invisible (at new moon), then swelling to a full circle again; these stages are called the phases of the Moon (figure 1).
2183	Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person.
2184	Every part of the world has its own culture.
2185	Every project is monitored throughout construction to ensure the label criteria are being fulfilled.
2186	Every such episode leads to repressions against the “opposition”, while the “opposition” accuses the Ukrainian Security Service of staging terror to create a pretext for further repressions.
2187	Everything about us is going into a Department of Information Retrieval and so he knew that, too, because he went to one of the best schools as well.
2188	Everything they've created is to be used on, and is being used on the public.
2189	Every year the Institute participated in scientific projects supported by State Committee for Scientific Research.
2190	Evidence suggests that this is an asset, but it is also a challenge, particularly when jobs are scarce.
2191	EVS volunteers should be part of ongoing exchanges between European citizens in EU countries and beyond, and between organisations working towards peace, stronger communities and socially engaged citizens.
2192	EWS Recommended Consultant, Peter Easton will speak on behalf of EWP on Water Stewardship as a means of water assessment.
2193	Exactly what Lord Bertrand Russell said back in the 1930s and 40s.
2194	Example here airpot what happens with a replication factor of 3, each data block is present in at least 3 separate data nodes.
2195	Examples of cross-scale assessments arelimited and open questions remain on the extent to which general assessments are able to capture localphenomena.
2196	Examples of deployment areas include personal health, environmental analysis, ambient intelligence, locomotive and large vehicle monitoring, military applications, deployment of personnel in toxic environments and traffic analysis.
2197	Examples of Mercator Ocean NetCDF files : Download PSY3V3 system NGP file: Standard Grid Product – The Standard Grid complies with the recommendations of the international standard.
2198	Excellent command of at least one of the Indian languages (not including English) is required.
2199	Exceptional pipes ("Premium") are stamped with their own name.
2200	Except to pretend immigration will will end at that point.
2201	Exchange experiences and lessons learned from real implementations.
2202	Exchange of 2 news weekly.
2203	Excitingly, 4C technology therefore offers the first high-resolution genomic approach that can identify both balanced and unbalanced genomic rearrangements. 4C is expected to become an important tool in clinical diagnosis and prognosis.
2204	Excludes: Following the conventions of ESA 1995, excluded are contributions and dues for membership of professional associations, churches and social, cultural, recreational and sports clubs (ESA 1995, paragraph 3.77.
2205	Excluding Tamiflu, pharmaceutical sales advanced 1%.
2206	Exhibits a perfect combination of shock absorption, touch and feel.
2207	Expected: refining the forecast of flare probability on a longer timescale.
2208	Expenses: There is no doubt that stocks win the battle here.
2209	Experience tells that empowered patients do make for more effective treatment.
2210	Experimental work for the project 'Protein isoforms profile and immunoassay response' completed (December 2009) • 06.01: ClinBioTrace.
2211	Experimentation/testing within the scope of the FI-PPP TXT e-solutions Specific Enabler Secure Event Management asset is available to the Parties signed to the FI-PPP program under the conditions established in the FI-PPP Collaboration Agreement.
2212	Experiments at IBM have shown that if this checking can be performed at compile-time and the compiler is allowed to make other optimizations, Java code improves from 1% of Fortran to 80-100%.
2213	Expert Group Members Business Information Further Information Eco-innovation Briefs Methodological Report Horizon Scanning and Foresight Reports HomeBy CountryHungaryWater supply The BACOM project diverts biosludge generated by municipal and..
2214	Expert Group Members Business Information Further Information Eco-innovation Briefs Methodological Report Horizon Scanning and Foresight Reports HomeBy SectorAdmin' & Supportive Services ActivitiesHow can I save water?
2215	Experts in cyber security will gather in Jyväskylä from 2.–5.9. for Finland’s first Cyber Security exhibition at Jyväskylä Paviljonki (3.–5.9.
2216	Experts run everything for you.
2217	Experts were requested to answer a detailed, standardized questionnaire, and their assessments were reviewed to ensure a cross-national comparability.
2218	Exposure to Agile development, Hibernate, JPA, JUnit, JBoss and MySQL is beneficial.
2219	Express who is doing what to whom.
2220	External factors will influence the decision as well such as the sourcing of the banknotes, security risks associated with the site, regulations and CiT costs.
2221	Extra folders and applications, such as My Pictures, Outlook and even the likes of iTunes can be added to RocketDock, simply by 'Dragging & Dropping' them into the dock itself.
2222	Extranet Share Print Send A+ A- 24 June 2014 - First meeting of CU Trade Working Group Cerame-Unie created a new Working Group on trade in early 2014.
2223	Extreme ecological events: the importance of deterministic and stochastic drivers of jellyfish outbreaks.
2224	ExtremeFactories Project Site Posts Tagged ‘the General Meeting’ Views about a General Meeting in Finland by admin • June 26, 2012 • Meetings Recently the whole ExtremeFactories consortium met in Finland on June 13th and 14th.
2225	F4E location map click for large version You can either take a taxi (cost approx. 30 euros), or take the A1 Aerobus leaving every 7 minutes, which takes you down to Plaça Catalunya in the centre of the City.
2226	Facebook disputes the accusations of the report, it told The Independent.
2227	FacebookGoogle PlusTwitterLinkedInEmailPrint this page Inequality is one of the predominant topics in public discourse.
2228	FacebookGoogle PlusTwitterLinkedInEmailPrint this page The Ministry of Economy finally published the eagerly-awaited plan for amendments to the Law on Protection of Competition (LPC).
2229	Facilitating and inciting crimes are criminal offences according to the Criminal Code, for all offences.
2230	Factors which trigger an R-transaction The SDD Schemes include data elements required to convey information to the payee with regard to the R-transaction.
2231	FACTS - Forage Fish Interactions Partner 9: Christian Albrechts Universität zu Kiel (CAU) The Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel, Department of Economics, has a long tradition in the field of resource economics.
2232	Factual information related to the budget, partners, type of partnerships and supported fields enable to compare data and facts and are included in a second printed Programme Leaflet in English, Estonian, Latvian and Russian.
2233	Faculty will have access to FSUCML's new 65 foot RV Apalachee and two larger vessels through the Florida Institute of Oceanography.
2234	Fadi Chehadé, ICANN’s CEO, declared in Davos that he was “optimistic but sobered” going into the Brazil meeting and that “a lot of patience and humility” would be required to make the event a success.
2235	Fats again aid in the muscle building process, and can be found in canola oil, olive oil, fatty fish (salmon, tuna) and nuts.
2236	Faults: Light eyes; full, round eyes; triangular eyes.
2237	Features migrated into the new framework The VO ID card.
2238	Featuring a complete database of horse and livestock property/properties for sale in Utah, presorted and ready to see.
2239	Featuring natural colon cleansing articles and publications about herbal colon cleanser.
2240	Federal, state, and county governments affect consumer confidence and can cause aggregate demand to rise or fall.
2241	@FedericaMog's hearing today, Prof.
2242	Fee debtors are only obliged to provide an update if there are any changes.
2243	Feeding of the MIRA PORTAL on EU-MPC S&T Cooperation and call s for proposals.
2244	Feel it well, and think about them being the clouds always figures out the day.
2245	Feel yourself like a God!
2246	Fehr is probably the major authority of lab economic experiments, specifically those regarding the processes underlying individual preferences and economic decision making.
2247	Fellows will be expected to make their own tax, visa, insurance and accommodation arrangements, where necessary.
2248	Female employees mostly work in staff, administrative and supporting functions, and are under-represented in the workforce at the industrial sites.
2249	FEMM and JURI Co-Rapporteurs and members will exchange views on the Commission proposal.
2250	Fertik's customers pay his company anywhere from $4 per month to $1,000 per year to help manage personal Google search results, remove their names from corporate databases, perform online damage-control, and closely monitor their Internet footprints.
2251	Field study with a Sea-Bird NAVIS float with dual oxygen optodes (Aanderaa 4330 + Sea-Bird SBE63): Float trajectory (left) and in-air measurements made in close proximity to the dynamic sea surface (right).
2252	FIEMSER project focuses on “Use less energy” and “Make more energy locally” and it also provides the necessary conditions and platform for future developments to sell surplus energy.
2253	Figure 1: Main concepts and relationships relevant to identity cultivation on the Web.
2254	Figure 2: Examples of frames from original DT (odd rows) and the corresponding synthesised frames using the proposed model (even rows) for three natural DTs.
2255	Figure 2 illustrates this problem, it shows daily images from the MODIS sensor onboard two separate satellites, Terra and Aqua.
2256	Figure 3 also shows that several NSDSs (in particular those from Romania, Greece and Switzerland) address SD obviously in different ways than the EU SDS does.
2257	Figure 4 shows such a plot for six experiments.
2258	Figure 7 - 1 Final energy consumption in agriculture and forestry in United Kingdom 2008 (Source: IEA) Differences in energy mix between urban and rural homes in the UK are very pronounced.
2259	Fill one-third of the ice bucket, place your bottle inside fifteen minutes before serving and let the copper work its magic to keeping it at the perfect temperature!
2260	Filmed at the CIA’s Greystone campus in Napa Valley, California, and featuring dozens of chef-tested recipes, these lessons teach you how to make delectable dishes and complete meals that reflect the flavors and traditions of each region.
2261	Film pioneer Jean Desmet was the first major distributor and cinema owner in the Netherlands.
2262	Films, games, banknotes and coins from every euro area country and much more offer something for everyone – from young to old, from experts in banknotes and coins to complete novices.
2263	Finally, and undoubtedly, its most striking feature is that sport leads to an external projection, generating a confrontation with the "other", which, in the definition of any identity is vital, since it enables the establishment of its external limits.
2264	Finally, as regards infrastructures, EDC will focuson the benefits offered by the plan for infrastructure development in India”.
2265	Finally, by being involved in practical hands-on sessions, PhD students and young researchers will get an up-to-date knowledge combined with basic skills on emerging technologies.
2266	Finally, CIAA would like to highlight that three principles should guide the CAP beyond 2013: security of supply, sustainability and market-orientation.
2267	Finally, in addition to the institutional path-dependency as discussed in STAR-FLOOD, I also witnessed how dependency on structural measures creates a sense of familiarity.
2268	Finally, information about the likely regional economic and environmental effects of proposed remediation strategies under different scenarios can be fed back into the agent-based model to see how these effects are likely to influence land use decisions.
2269	Finally, make programmer reference letter you delete the main program folder(s) where you installed the Forceware drivers.
2270	Finally, my expectations for EU institutions are not maximalist; I do not expect that the crisis will precipitate a super-federal EU state, nor do I wish it would.
2271	Finally newspapers remain fairly stable with a small decrease of 1,5 per cent and a total circulation of 19 million.
2272	Finally she found one!
2273	Finally, the approach of Ref.
2274	Finally the costs of nanomedicine has been raised by Alessandro Maiocchi, from Bracco, highlighting to have a final cost below 200 US$ per dose in diagnostics.
2275	Finally, the paper concludes with policy recommendations, focusing on the issue of whether the Bonn Powers should be renounced or retained in the future in order to maximise values of human dignity.
2276	Finally, there is a list of other resources of relevance for Phase III proposers who are working in ICT for manufacturing.
2277	Finally, under the title »finding common ground« creative people from different countries could create audiovisual content supporting the development of a »We«.
2278	Finally, we attribute a specific price to the public PPP risk introducing CDS valuation with and without counterparty (government) default.
2279	Finally, we would like to point that we have been actively involved in EUI’s community in the past as representatives while studying but also following our graduation – in fact one of our team members is giving a presentation at this year’s Alumni events.
2280	Finally, with e-government techniques, notaries are making a significant contribution to simplifying the procedure for registering a company in the public register.
2281	Finance is easy to obtain online and no need to go out.
2282	Finance Minister Pär Nuder (SAP) criticised the opposition's project saying that it would benefit only the richest: "People will pay identical taxes whether they own a castle or a hut".
2283	Financial viability of CCS, storage issues, CCS technology development, CO2 transport and public engagement are analysed and discussed.
2284	Find and compare 8,174 distance learning study programmes Accreditation is a basic, but not a sufficient requirement to make a course appropriate for open and distance or online learning.
2285	Find Fairs, Festivals and Craft shows in Wyoming State.
2286	Find out more about travelling to Nottingham.
2287	Find out what has been done in Europe On this page you can find a comprehensive collection of case studies of RECYCLE actions that have been implemented during the past editions of the EWWR.
2288	Find the best deals on Maggie Valley NC Homes for Sale by signing in for a list of foreclosed properties.
2289	Find the cheapest Wrigley Rooftop tickets and skybox tickets in Chicago.
2290	Find the companies that often hire home workers as well as current work at home job listings, home business ideas, articles, and more.
2291	Find the needed objects on the screen within the time limi.
2292	Finland continues to implement a remote rehabilitation service via VC to patients in the remote areas of Utajärvi, Vaala and Ii (northern Finland).
2293	First, a gas network can combine different types of network components (primary or secondary ones).
2294	First and foremost, one of the positive findings is that the material consumption in Europe has not increased in the last 20 years, even though there has been considerable economic growth.
2295	First assessment starts as soon as a healthcare worker thinks that he/she might be dealing with a potential EVD patient and as a consequence undertakes a clinical or risk factor assessment (triage) in order to identify the risk of transmission.
2296	First, by creating open and direct competition for funding between the best researchers in Europe, the ERC will enhance aspirations and achievements.
2297	First, consultation is essential in order for regulation to be effective.
2298	First exhibitions in the building were held in 1992 on the initiative of students.
2299	First Gaudeamus Muziekweek New York to take place 25-28 January 2012 Since 1945, the Netherlands-based contemporary music festival Gaudeamus Muziekweek has presented groundbreaking and challenging new music by emerging composers from around the world.
2300	First generation devices have been deployed at the shoreline and normally consist of Oscillating Water Column Systems.
2301	First, in case of high water the flood is slowed down because the water will saturate the natural sponges first.
2302	First, let us agree that fiscal and macroeconomic mismanagement preceded the adoption of the euro.
2303	Firstly, as an operational agency of the EU, EMSA has in-depth understanding of the maritime situation in and around EU waters.
2304	Firstly, it identifies new members for the staged renewal of the Scientific Council membership.
2305	Firstly, the euro-crisis is returning, as growth falters in the major economies of the EU – Germany, France and Italy; and recovery in the hard-hit southern tier of the EU is thus proving even more difficult.
2306	Firstly, to ensure compliance with the requirements of relevant European Union (EU) directives.
2307	First of all there are industrial kitchen -for example for frozen food - large restaurants, fast food places, but also high-class restaurants or very small places.
2308	First of all we would like to thank you for taking on the task of facilitating the process aimed at defining the format and organizational modalities of the High-level political forum.
2309	First of all, you have the choice of whether to save your credit card information for future purchases.
2310	First, producing biogas from food waste reduce our dependence on finite resources and therefore contributes to secure a longterm energy supply.
2311	First, Professor David Hendy from Sussex University discussed his research that was recently presented in a major BBC radio series ‘Noise: A Human History’.
2312	First results can be expected in the coming year.
2313	First results clearly show that the Greenland Basin has a seasonal cycle with higher velocities in winter, and a minimum velocity in late summer as has the Norwegian Basin.
2314	First the water is pumped into the column in one of the mine shafts (the Marie shaft at La Houve n° 1).
2315	First, the West’s cooperation with previous regimes has damaged the image of democracy among the Arab population.
2316	First, this inconsistency could be another instance of the inherent problem of inconsistency in the law-espionage relations, which has been characterized in recent literature.
2317	First-time visitors to the recipes section soared in this same period, and the campaign continued to drive brand equity and other key metrics.
2318	First up, let’s have a look at the Toyota Stand.
2319	First, we are talking about investments, not costs.
2320	First, you need to recognize who these individuals are.
2321	Fischler’s discussion paper was more definite on the issue of liability: Since it can sometimes be difficult to find the causal link between the cultivation of a specific crop and economic damage, Fischler proposed two solutions.
2322	FIspace is a Future-Internet-based extensible SaaS-platform fostering seamless, efficient, and effective business collaboration across organizational boundaries.
2323	Fitness was evaluated according to the ability to move, to load the operated limb, the range of motion in adjacent joints and muscle atrophy.
2324	"Fits like a glove, high quality" (Pilgram, USA) "Ads more grip and protection to the camera" (Eugene R.) "Fantastic Product!"
2325	FI-WARE & FI-CONTENT at CeBIT 2014 On Tuesday, March 12th, we were at CeBIT, the world's largest and most international IT expo.
2326	Fixing problems in your vehicle is a do-it-approach with the Auto Repair Manuals toyota auris owners manual pdf they contain comprehensive instructions and procedures on how to fix the problems in your ride.
2327	Fixing the carbon sink may take climate “quantitative easing.”
2328	Flannel next to the skin is a pleasant.
2329	Fleece Fabric and Ponchos in a variety of Colourfull Designs and Patterns.
2330	Fleming also operates a number of other top-level facility units including expression profiling, genotyping, flow cytometry, histopathology, and proteomics units offering state-of-the-art services to researchers and companies from Greece and abroad.
2331	Flexible floor plans ensure maximum usage possibilities.
2332	Florence Autret published an article in La Tribune on 29th May in which she quotes the Foundation's "Schuman Report on Europe 2015, the State of the Union".
2333	Fly on the car through a city of the Zombie and crush as much as possible local population.
2334	FM Nutty T has rapidly become a success on the underground hardtrance/style circuit after setting up his Nutty Trance label in December 2005, he has gone from strength to strength with over 45 releases on both Vinyl and Digital.
2335	FNS may take up if any company can cut buy viagra cheap card companies in one place this.
2336	Focusing on Catalonia, I think that no democratic change is possible without a break with the old central state, eternally sequestered by a mixture, liquated by a tragic history of military, bankers, oligarchs, the Church and senior public servants.
2337	Focus lies on applied research, further training, extension and experiments in the field with the intension to improve the environmental sustainability of agriculture.
2338	Following an overview of EUREKA Canada by the National Research Council, EURIPIDES² Chair Jean-Luc Maté shared his insight into industrial partnership opportunities in this cluster.
2339	Following a public consultation with civil society organisations, the European Commission presented its proposal on 31st March 2010 and the Council on 14th June agreed on a draft ECI regulation which next will be negotiated with Parliament.
2340	Following a review undertaken by 1 January 2005 by the Commission of exports of such recovered, recycled and reclaimed halon for critical uses the Commission may prohibit such exports earlier than 31 December 2009.
2341	Following a sequence of errors and avoidable delays Europe’s leadership remains in denial about the nature of the crisis, and continues to pose the false choice between draconian austerity and a federal Europe.
2342	Following contacts between the Delegation of the EU in Nairobi and the office of UNESCO, two projects were selected and were implemented by UNESCO.
2343	Following from last year’s success, the EGU General Assembly will have a theme: A Voyage Through Scales.
2344	Following nominations and voting in February 2014, the EBTP is pleased to announce the appointment of Tomas Kåberger, Chalmers University of Technology, as the new SC Chair.
2345	Following Russian Federal Policy in Engineering and Innovations, the University is working to develop research and development projects in prioritized areas of the economy, as identified by the Presidential Administration.
2346	Following the EU demographic trend, Estonia’s population is getting older (Figure 5).
2347	Following the publication of the call for proposals for the NMP theme, the topics will be presented by the European Commission.
2348	Following the recommendation of the Sherpas and taking into consideration the added value of the work of the CARS 2020 High Level Group, the Commission is considering re-launching the CARS 2020 process.
2349	Following the timeline of the programming process, INTERACT invites ETC programme stakeholders to join forces and through the exchange of knowledge and ideas contribute to the development of effective solutions for 2014-2020.
2350	Follow this link for more information (Dutch).
2351	Food business operators are not free to make any nutrition or health claim for marketing their food products.
2352	FoodDrinkEurope, is an international association registered under Belgian law.
2353	For 13 years, he also served as the chairman of the clinical working group of the European Vaccine Manufacturers (EVM).
2354	For 2009, the EECU executive director aims at making grants the major component of the funding.
2355	For 2014-2020, the following three areas are expected to be the focus of EU support: regional economic integration, security and rule of law, disaster management and climate change.
2356	For 4 years she was also CEO of two investigative sites in London, UK, performing clinical trials in acute and chronic pain as well as musculo-skeletal diseases.
2357	For Abu Dhabi, the capital and second largest city in the United Arab Emirates, Ferrari World is part of a new development strategy that the city hopes will attract tourists from all over the globe.
2358	For a formal event, incorporate scroll shapes in your design and embrace the trio of black, white and red.
2359	For all the foregoing reasons, in accordance with Paragraphs B12 (b) and (c) of the Rules, the Panel orders that the domain name INTESACOMMERCIALE.
2360	For all these reasons, the Greens in the European Parliament have fought against ACTA for the last two years.
2361	For a while the party declined to take part in the parliamentary work and in elections, but in an agreement fostered by commissioner Fühle, they decided to go back.
2362	For better or for worse, economic arguments appear to hold real sway with decision makers.
2363	For both the CAP reform and MFF dossiers, what has been achieved are political agreements between the Council Presidency and the Parliament’s negotiators for which formal ratification by both bodies must now take place.
2364	For commodity oils, increased consolidation has led to a strong buyer’s market.
2365	For compulsory education this means that all pupils attend comprehensive school.
2366	For each flight, the airline determines what fraction of the (remaining) seats are to be offered at what price.
2367	For each of these approaches different methods exist.
2368	For example, a catastrophic failure of the Electricity Generation service will have a direct effect on the service functions it provides.
2369	For example, broadcast and multicast messages could be used to replace unicast messages if applicable.
2370	For example, Envie has developed significant know how on cooling device decontamination, which became obligatory after the introduction of a European directive in 2002.
2371	For example, German Mark banknotes still in circulation exceeded 6 billionMarks at the end of 2012, declining by about 90million during 2013.
2372	For example, if you don't buy a television, you can use the money to go on vacation.
2373	For example, “Initiate Reflection Session” includes “Decide to Reflect” and “Frame the reflection session”.
2374	For example, in the first decade of the 21st century,the majority of research paid for and carried out by the UK National Health Service was not freely available - even to NHS staff.
2375	For example, in the Information Society Technology Programme, Luxembourg public research centres' success rate was 33% while European average was 25%.
2376	For example, it allows the usage of pointers created in C. Some aspects of F90 should be avoided altogether since they are misleading.
2377	For example, it is possible to use the ‘broad-scale’ modelling approaches for small areas and to use the ‘fine-scale’ detailed approach for very large areas.
2378	For example: — LEDs played a huge role in holiday celebrations this year, lighting up nationally-recognized Christmas trees and the iconic Times Square New Year’s Eve Ball.
2379	For example, new suprafamilial names and new combinations are governed by the ICNafp, but not by ICZN.
2380	For example, observers are not allowed to participate in closed sessions of Committee meetings.
2381	For example, one teacher claimed that she had to give up having her students read Shakespeare in favor of Malcolm Gladwell’s Tipping Point because it was ‘fact-based’ and Shakespeare was not.
2382	For example, our soil Atlas of Africa is in laid out in A3 format, contains 176 pages and weighs over 2.5 kg – so it is quite an imposing publication!
2383	For example, pellet boilers are more suitable for the domestic market as they are easier to use compared to other wood fuel types, require around a third of the space of logs or chips (due to their higher energy density) and also burn cleaner (less ash).
2384	For example, research conducted by the UK’s PPA in 2008 showed that reader exposure to a magazine campaign will increase a product’s sales revenue by 11.6 per cent, from 10 per cent (non-exposed) to 21.6 per cent (exposed).
2385	For example soldiers songs from the civil wars in the U.S.A. the lyrics and melodies were adapted or chanced here and there.
2386	For example, the Act on Social Support (Wet Maatschappelijke Ondersteuning (WMO)), the Act on land exploitations (Wet op de Grondexploitaties (Grexwet)) and the changed Act on Town and Country Planning (Wet ruimtelijke ordening (WRO)).
2387	For example when Anthony Jenkins took over as CEO of Barclays, he came with a background in retail banking, but has struggled at times with political wrangling involved in driving culture change through the American investment banking division.
2388	For example, when Germany introduced the Deutschemark (DM) into the Länder in the east it had to consent to significant transfers: 4% of the GDP of the Western Länder for a 20 year period.
2389	For example, why does hard coal come out worse than lignite?
2390	For free Relationship Advice Online, the best place to turn to is www.freechatrooms.us. It saves you a lot of precious time and money.
2391	For full report: ENISA Threat Landscape 2014 For interviews: Dr Louis Marinos, Expert in Network and Information Security, ENISA Email: louis.
2392	For further information about the AgChem Asia Summit 2011, visit www.agchemasia.com For further information contact: Dominic Dyer, Crop Protection Association: dominic@cropprotection.
2393	For further information about the Hotels please click here A map of the city of Athens with all proposed hotels is available for the participants‟ convenience.
2394	For further information (agenda, pictures and presentations,.
2395	For further information, contact: agnes.
2396	For further information, in particular on the technical areas, conditions of appointment, eligibility criteria etc. please consult the full text of the Call for Experts Adjudicators.
2397	For further information on entrance visas for Italy and the Schengen area click here.
2398	Forgot password / New user Homepage / Funding - 10th Call for Proposals Funding - 10th Call for Proposals The 10th Call for Proposals opens on Friday 13 April and closed on Friday 11 May at 12h (noon, French time).
2399	For instance, as northern Europe becomes more suited to growing crops currently grown in the Mediterranean region, there may be pressure to increase the area of arable land by felling forests.
2400	For instance, EMSA (the European Maritime Safety Agency) and EEA (the European Environment Agency) are able to rely each day on the consortium's products.
2401	For instance, over the last five years, the EU has supported a €38 million programme (PARQE) for improving the quality of public primary education in Haiti.
2402	For instance, the scalable cloud-based COMPOSE platform addresses use cases involving event streams.
2403	For instance: While working on a mapping to EDM, MIMO had to handle the issues directly related to the creation of URIs.
2404	For it was passionate intellectuals who created and developed the revolutionary faith.
2405	For larger and thicker areas of tissue, vascularization is necessary.
2406	For long term storage, store at -20°C. 3 μl or 5 μl per loading for clear visualization during electrophoresis on 15-well or 10-well mini-gel, respectively.
2407	For Madison and Jefferson the ratification of the Convention represented above all the last act of the revolution that had freed the Americans from British domination.
2408	Formal analysis of security properties and performance is also essential in application areas such as e-commerce.
2409	Formation des professionnels du droit Commission reaffirms its support for training legal professionals There are around 1.4 million legal practitioners in the European Union (notaries, judges, prosecutors, bailiffs, lawyers, etc.).
2410	For me it has been one of the best experiences I have ever had and I thank the staff for the opportunity they gave me.
2411	For more detailed information, visit the event page.
2412	For more details in French, please contact Sébastien Houssin, Mulhouse Local Coordinator (sebastien.
2413	For more details on this developing technology, click here.
2414	For more details, see ECB Occasional Paper No 96 of September 2008 entitled “The monetary presentation of the euro area balance of payments”.
2415	For more information about the activity, please contact: The European Institute of Public Administration (EIPA) in Maastricht (NL) is pleased to invite you to the seminar “The Presidency Challenge – The Practicalities of Chairing Council Working Groups”.
2416	For more information on the IRI or how to get involved please contact Will Fawcett: will.
2417	For more information on the new proposals we invite you to consult the AER AND ACI EUROPE joint press realease on this topic, as well as the EC Communication on the new guidelines HERE.
2418	For more information please contact Dermot Ryan ( This email address is being protected from spambots.
2419	For more information please visit www.norbert-dentressangle.com Asseco Solutions, a.s. is the biggest producer of company information systems (ERP systems) on the Czech and Slovak markets.
2420	For more information, read the GPP tender model.
2421	For more information, visit newstix.de (in German).
2422	For more information, visit the company’s web site.
2423	For more than 50 years, the Good Design Award has been given for outstanding designs developed in five spheres of human activity: human body, living, work, society and network.
2424	For most people it is probably about being happy more often than not – even if "happiness" may be considered a fleeting concept.
2425	For most people today impression upon his mind suicide and do away of your vehicle.
2426	For newcomers as always I suggest you make good use, and I mean good use of cuttingthroughthematrix.com and you’ll begin to understand the system you’re born into.
2427	For now the colors will be available in the classics: Navy, 100% Authentic Air Jordan 11 Low Infrared 23, Black and Brown.
2428	For one week try eating Three thousand five hundred calories daily.
2429	For others, their engagement was more a question of balancing geopolitical relations, not least with the EU to the west and Russia to the east.
2430	For over ten years our experts have successfully been implementing communication strategies in the energy sector.
2431	For participating in the training sessions, registration to the ECFI Munich event is required.
2432	For payment by bank transfer, please send copy of the bank transfer to fsr.
2433	For planned papers, a title and short abstract (about 100 words) can be sent to the Editorial Office for announcement on this website.
2434	For reasons of data protection individual members are not listed here.
2435	For rural development payments – if Scotland been independent and we had negotiated as well as Ireland did, for example – Scotland would have received an extra €2.5 billion of funding.
2436	For service users below certain income thresholds the rent is split between the tenant and the municipal housing department.
2437	For students the price is €100.
2438	For teachers there is a special room with a collection of textbooks at lower prices.
2439	For that, TCS will provide a Single Sign On use case.
2440	For that to happen, I need for all of us to be in agreement on this."
2441	For the 150 cases reported in East Asia, the onset dates range from 11 May for the index case, until 10 June for the most recent cases, according to the Korean Centres for Disease Prevention and Control.
2442	For the driver, a new, sporty steering wheel provides improved feel and view of the instrument panel.
2443	For the EFDD is a group and not a political party.
2444	For the extended powers of the executive as a result of the economic crisis, see Lina Papadopoulou, op.
2445	For the first time, PESOS will feature a special session on “the quest for case studies”.
2446	For the first time, there are two films previously selected by the LUX Prize among the shortlisted features for Best Foreign Language Film.
2447	For the higher energy rays the rate of collision is less.
2448	For the infoday in London: This email address is being protected from spambots.
2449	For their final presentation the participants worked together reflecting how they have widened and deepened their understanding and knowledge of the phenomenon of exile today; including all the elements from the week using multi-media.
2450	For them, the difficulty is to identify and interpret these weak signals and make them grow bigger.
2451	For the Neurocypres project a fragment based drug discovery strategy is applied to design new small molecules as ligands for the human 5-HT3A receptor.
2452	For the non-governmental sector, this event is the most important achievement of the EaP programme.
2453	For the rest of the article click here.
2454	For the sake of simplicity, we will use Pastecat3).
2455	For this file, FEMM and JURI have common meetings.
2456	For this purpose, they must send any queries about processing of their personal data to the Interreg Europe JS by sending an email to the mailbox indicated on the iOLF homepage.
2457	For this reason, employees of the NRAs from EU Members States are regularly invited to share the experience of their NRAs in the process of approximation of their regulatory environment to the EU regulatory framework.
2458	For this reason, I firmly think IAMCR is the place where the convergence between Latin-American and European scholars can take the form of specific and practical actions to promote a more democratic field for researchers.
2459	For this reason, in order to tackle the issue with the sense of urgency that it deserves calls not only for better spending, but for additional spending on ALMPs and incentives to create employment.
2460	For this to happen, says Geden, it will take huge structural changes in how we generate and consume electricity, in- cluding expanded use of renewable energy, and more efficient conventional power plants.
2461	For those who have not yet registered to attend the EUSEW Policy Conference, we encourage you do so before all the sessions are fully booked.
2462	For those who want personalized power, we can craft it for you. iBUYPOWER symbolizes several key beliefs: unity, strength, ambition, and perseverance.
2463	For transit passengers the concourse has 3 transfer areas, and 62 transfer desks.
2464	For us, the New Year has well and truly kicked-off and we are now full steam ahead in our preparations for the Geneva Motor Show which starts in just six weeks!
2465	For Warhol, growing up in a poor immigrant family struggling to find its place in a new homeland, Campbell's soup probably offered a reassuring sense of belonging.
2466	For water quantity, scoring criteria will only be developed and included into the evaluation for next years reporting.
2467	For WRS it is very important to implement the projects in cooperation with other regional stakeholders.
2468	For years farm incomes have been falling behind wages in the rest of the economy, and according to the study, without the CAP agricultural wages would fall further behind.
2469	FOTONIKA-LV is taking a leading role in a cluster to collaborate with industry.
2470	Founded in 2001, ERRIN is a dynamic Brussels-based platform of more than 120 dynamic EU regions and their Brussels representation offices.
2471	Four projects were awarded the ultimate accolade of being a ‘Best of the Best’ project, including one LIFE INF.
2472	Four quality datasets were identified to perform the analyses.
2473	Four types of private forest owners were identified in Žemaitija (forestry businessman, household forester, passive forest lover and ad-hoc owner).
2474	Fragrance, perfume, scents, aromatics Fragrance, perfume, scents, aromatics, essential oils - call them what you may, but judging by perfume sales, there is no doubt we all love the many different and new perfumes on offer.
2475	Framework Assessment of PV in Brazil The report describes the legal and administrative framework of the above-mentioned policy options, presenting the steps that need to be followed by companies and individuals interested in both mechanisms.
2476	France : Conference and Exhibition : Photovoltaic Technical Conference 2011 The PVTC 2011 is an international photovoltaic technical conference that offers the opportunity to discuss and learn more about solar cells generations.
2477	France has a lot to contribute and I am looking forward to the bright future of CNG and LNG in transport".
2478	Frankfurt (dpa) - The new headquarters, constructed at the site of an old wholesale fruit and "Germany", (officially: the Federal Republic of Germany), (German: "Bundesrepublik Deutschland") is the largest country in Central Europe.
2479	Franklin said himself he watched factory workers coming out of England when he was over there and he said none of them had shoes on their feet – and it was a shoe factory.
2480	Franssen and the local marketers work based on their expertise combined with advice from media agency Mindshare which Randstad selected because of its expertise, its geographical reach and the quality of its thinking.
2481	Fraud is motivated not only by money but also by the need for anonymity to mask other crimes.
2482	Fraunhofer intends to offer integrated solutions for these Markets Beyond Tomorrow and aims to be the technology leader on the German and European research landscape.
2483	Free EPSO 2014 AD information webcast 10 March 2014 Join us on 13 March for an hour-long free information webcast, where we'll talk about the current AD cycle!
2484	FREE Factoring & invoice discounting service with instant online quotes.
2485	Free movement within the Union and intelligent management of migration flows The EPP considers mobility as an absolute right that benefits individuals, businesses and the economy, leaving the choice to the citizens to work in their country or abroad.
2486	Free, no obligation quotations by request.
2487	Free public service supported by the City of Brno Brno Expat Centre > What expats say What expats say: Middle management can learn a lot here Tony Achmat, originally from Australia, lived and worked in many countries around the globe.
2488	Free registration to access thousands of nursing jobs.
2489	"Free sample episodes are available, but you have to pay to view a course.
2490	Free wi-fi is available, but we encourage you to use your own connection to avoid overloading the network.
2491	French at Kent was in the top ten in the UK in the most recent Research Assessment Exercise.
2492	French, German and Swedish partners met for the second time in Cluses, in Haute-Savoie, France on 30-31st of August.
2493	Frequently, however, the title contains a reference to a report, which contains valuable contextual information such as the committee that drafted the amendments to be discussed.
2494	Fresh importance is now attached to relations with Azerbaijan and the trans-Caspian pipeline, with EU commissioners again visiting Baku in early September to tighten energy cooperation.
2495	Friends of Europe The issue: Could rescuing the €-17 fatally weaken the EU?
2496	From 16 to 23 October ECON was present too.
2497	From 1987 until 1989, he was assistant to the Director General for Competition.
2498	From 1998 to 2012 the Law Faculty’s study programme and department numbers varied.
2499	From 2007, our spending in the area will include a 10% governance bonus, to reward progress in good governance and human rights.
2500	From Al-Monitor: Ben-Naim was chosen for the mission of opening the NYPD branch in Israel.
2501	From a policy perspective it is also important to ensure that the EU legal framework supports the development of personalised medicine and does not contribute to delays in making such products available to patients.
2502	From classic French cuisine to spicy and exotic dishes, Rotterdam has it all.
2503	From Einstein we should have learned that you cannot keep ­doing the same thing and expect different ­results.
2504	From Hakata Harbour (Sea-Port) International Terminal It takes about 10 to 15 minutes to go from Hakata Harbour International Passenger Terminal to "Hakata" station or Tenjin station.
2505	From here, another fundamental difference between post-communist and Western populism emerges.
2506	From here there is no going back.
2507	From its inception, ST established a strong culture of partnership and through the years has created a worldwide network of strategic alliances with key customers, suppliers, competitors, and leading universities and research institutes around the world.
2508	From July 2008 to June 2012, he was Vice President Project Management, and from July 2008 to December 2013 Chief Technical Officer.
2509	From launching videos on smartphones, to enabling quick purchases from catalogs or postcards, the effectiveness of direct mail in combination with digital messaging can be very powerful.
2510	From pixels to riches - The Million Dollar Homepage Legions of entrepreneurs and marketing wizards have wrecked their brains to find a way for making big money on the Internet.
2511	From registration to methodological tips and tricks on each test type - this online seminar will give you useful and helpful insights into the AST exams.
2512	From stem cells to Big Macs It’s food, but not as you know it The farmer and the little blue bird The names of his calves, Hashtag and Jpeg, were suggested by his 3,200 followers.
2513	From their point of view, it is working.
2514	From the Pricing Fields, we added the Credit Card field.
2515	From there, we move to the logic and analysis of truth tables and discuss the most important problems that emerge when this analytic tool is used for analysing social science data.
2516	From these, the requirements of the platform will be identified.
2517	From the simple corporate need, to executive gifts and the small items that help to build and reinforce a brand to customers.
2518	From the very beginning of my mandate I have been highlighting the EU´s determination to give a renewed impetus to the relations between the EU and CELAC.
2519	From what I understand about Greece the poor and middle class have suffered a lot but at least a significant part of Greece’s wealthy got through so far without having had to carry much of the burden.
2520	Frontex does not however have its own operational capabilities, and owns no ships or aircraft, with Member States lending ships and aircraft to each joint operation.
2521	FUEL CELLS: Galvanometer BIOLOGIC model SP-150 (20V,+/-800mA) with a build in EIS generator for impedance measurements.
2522	Fuel consumption is reduced by flying optimized profile (no vertical containment required).
2523	Fuelthemind.com is a complete home gym design guide gives you guidelines and tips for building your own home gym equipment store with fitness equipments, gym accessories and more.
2524	Full papers should be of 12-16 pages length.
2525	Funding agencies should develop policies on Open Access.
2526	Funding opportunities for a training programme such as the Atelier are numerous at local/national level.
2527	Furniture is meant to last for a lifetime and it should always be purchased from sellers who are trustworthy and offer you the highest quality.
2528	Further details can be found on our website.
2529	Further impacts are expected in the future, potentially..
2530	Further information about LeanXcale can be obtained from the interview video below: Big Data start-up LeanXcale lands in the EIT ICT Labs Madrid CLC The rocky road to success before and after winning an EIT award Interview with Dr.
2531	Further information explaining the stages in detail can be found in the Guidelines.
2532	Furthermore, activity in this area is predicted by the dissimilarity, elsewhere in the brain, between sensorimotor instantiations of the described object’s distinct states.
2533	Furthermore, a local transport plan was designed in 2010.
2534	Furthermore, a meeting between the Icarus Team and the members of the Consortium Executive Board will take place as a part of the planned activities for the day.
2535	Furthermore, and this is more important, the POQL queries are in a certain degree independent of the data structure.
2536	Furthermore, a specific skill-assessment scheme covering the formal, informal and non-formal acquired skills and competences will be developed.
2537	Furthermore, biomethane could be inserted into the natural gas network and used as an advanced form of biofuel for transport and agricultural machinery.
2538	Furthermore, demographics don’t look good – Germany has been shrinking over the last few years.
2539	Furthermore, depending on the experiment setup, monitoring data is not only available while experimenting but can even be maintained persistent after the deletion or the expiration of the experiment.
2540	Furthermore, DIY toolkits are continuously in development and becoming available, enabling cultural heritage professionals to create interactive exhibitions.
2541	Furthermore, feedback from these sub-projects will enable validation and improvment of the FIR service beyond the current level of scientific understanding.
2542	Furthermore, it can be instrumental in meeting EU climate change objectives even in times of financial difficulties.
2543	Furthermore it provides you insides into the EnercitEE partner regions and the thematic priorities for EnercitEE sub-projects.
2544	Furthermore, judicial decisions by Member State courts can develop into case law.
2545	Furthermore, models in which users are managers and owners of networks simultaneously become increasingly popular and will eventually become a challenge to traditional ISP business models.
2546	Furthermore, most of the theoretic courses don’t prepare students for the real-life experience of a certain profession.
2547	Furthermore, other entities entitled by law to submit a complaint may do so, such as a commune (gmina), inter-commune association, district (powiat) or self-governing voivodship.
2548	Furthermore our colleague Noé Viedma is no longer working at the Secretariat, we thank him for all the good work he did during the last three years at EUCIS-LLL and wish him all the best for the future.
2549	Furthermore, people at home create ever more digitized data: making your own compact discs with music has become extremely popular, and digital photo- and film-cameras become increasingly common.
2550	Furthermore, quality improvement, increased safety of patients, improved quality of services and cost reduction are obligations to be fulfilled in the process of EU integration.
2551	Furthermore, real-time employee activities including arrival and departure times and meetings attendance (Figure 2) are also simulated.
2552	Furthermore, streets with very busy traffic, called Ječná and Jugoslávská, runs there.
2553	Furthermore, the Advisory Committee will take insights into activities planned by the fifteen Regional Projects granted under the Eastern Partnership Culture Programme and the activities planned by the RMCBU.
2554	Furthermore, the city hall is supposed to be refurbished to CONCERTO-Standard and the municipal energy company has moved on to develop an energy-plus building.
2555	Furthermore, the Joint Declaration explores how new markets and better food recovery can contribute to economic growth.
2556	Furthermore, the need for efficient monitoring of ongoing climate change creates new requirements for the accessibility of this kind of data by researchers.
2557	Furthermore, the Parliament has demanded a different portfolio for Hungary’s Commissioner.
2558	Furthermore, the Strategy of Public Administration Reform in Montenegro 2011-2016 aims at increasing transparency of the drafting of laws by making available more information and reports on public consultations.
2559	Furthermore three posters were presented.
2560	Furthermore, we can state without a doubt Bernanke is Inflationist Jackass, Devoid of Common Sense, and Clueless About Trade, Debt, History, and Gold.
2561	Furthermore, we present a reflection on the necessity of multi-level governance approaches to manage the development and transformation of cities and urban areas towards a more sustainable future.
2562	Furthermore, while the study presents damages under both a 2°C and Reference scenario (with and without emissions abatement respectively), the difference between the two should not be interpreted as the benefit of mitigation.
2563	Further to the selection of the submitted projects, the next step will be the coaching phase, starting in January 2015 through November 2015, punctuated by meetings every three months.
2564	Further, we are investigating the re-use of PaaSage tools for multi-cloud and cross-cloud deployments.
2565	Further, when uncertainties are very substantial, knowledge produced by impact analyses may not justify the use of resources to produce them.
2566	Futile or not, cocktail contests continue in favor.
2567	Future changes in exposure to contaminants may also be due to lifestyle changes, causing dietary transition away from traditional foods, which is not necessarily related to climate change.
2568	Future Internet Week 2011 in Poznan The second Future Internet Week in 2011 will be held in Poznan, Poland, during the Polish EU Presidency.
2569	FYI I was contacted today by the CBT organisers in order to book the test at another time.
2570	Gadhafi," Posselt said, adding that stability could only exist in Russia alongside freedom and the rule of law.
2571	Gallery: HD Wallpapers - Travel These wallpapers come in HD resolution, to brighten up your desktop.
2572	GAP: much is inferred from studies of vaccinia virus or ectromelia, but actual studies in reservoir, transmitting, or “end” hosts have been limited.
2573	Gas prices were more volatile over the same period but also experienced an upward trend with a steep rise between 2005 and 2007.
2574	Gasrec is Europe’s leading supplier of liquefied gas fuel to the road transport sector and fuels more than 60% of dual-fuel gas powered HGVs on UK roads, helping operators cut fuel costs and significantly reduce pollution.
2575	Gas will remain part of our energy mix for a long time.
2576	Gathe Escape-Animal PlaneHelp Gathe to escape from the animal planet.
2577	Gathering a critical mass of experts the Action will serve as a platform in NQO and as such it will cooperate with industry and academia to promote innovation and education in a forefront research field.
2578	Gazprom is selling the Russian gas for very different prices for the different countries.
2579	Geert ate his soup and thought that praying had something to do with the words ‘before’ and ‘after’.
2580	General binding rules are established by statutory orders and administrative provisions.
2581	Generally, this means using relatively flat and uniform illumination, with minimal surface glare, although this can vary depending on the object.
2582	Generate a VOMS proxy that identifies you at the EGI storage sites you want to use as endpoints for the file transfers.
2583	Generous guidance and inspiring insight - 11 presenters Different presenters jointed the group throughout the week to contribute to the Atelier.
2584	Genes are defined sections of DNA encoding different types of proteins.
2585	Genetic quality assurance and genetic monitoring of laboratory murines In the past years the number of mouse and rat models has increased dramatically.
2586	Genocide, being a crime against humanity, is in a different legal category from murder.
2587	Geomagnetic storms are more frequent during the solar maximum and during the declining phase but can, in principle, occur at any time during the solar cycle.
2588	Geophysical Research Abstracts. 11 NitroEuropeIP is coordinated by The Centre For Ecology and Hydrology.
2589	George Hatjoullis on June 18, 2015 at 23:23 said: Reblogged this on Gestaltz.
2590	George XILOURIS received his B.Sc. in Physics from University of Ioannina, Greece in 1999 and his M.Sc. in Automation Control Systems and Robotics from National Technical University of Athens in 2001.
2591	Georg Treu is the technical founder of Aloqa.
2592	Germany is merely blowing up Darian schemes all over the shop.
2593	Germany's building renovation programme has already mobilised €100 billion in investments, yielding around 300,000 direct jobs per year.
2594	Germany: Turkey is an important partner, but we do not want it in the EU On the eve of her meeting with the Turkish president, however, German Chancellor Angela Merkel once again declared she was against Turkey's full EU membership.
2595	Get custom thesis paper writing service and guarantee your degree.
2596	Get latest Flash Player.
2597	Get more out of your teambuilding with Aha & Co; we combine acknowledged theories with practical exercises and deliver results.
2598	Get my film Endgame, get it out to everybody.
2599	Get Our Sexo de animales con mujeres xxx xvideos.com Scarcely was he gone felt far from well acquaintances but he was.
2600	Get reliable SEO services with free trial offer.
2601	Getting back to last night’s talk on Iran and I gave links there do with the Brzezinski and others who gave talks on Iran.
2602	Get your tickets ASAP Tech has a depression problem.
2603	GIE currently represents 68 member companies from 25 countries.
2604	Gil Roman began his career as a dancer in the company of Maurice Bejart in 1979, and took part in all the major productions staged by the great choreographer.
2605	Giovanni Caiati (Laboratory of Citizenship Sciences) and Adam Pearson, Transatlantic Fellow at Ecologic Institute presented research that shows social and behavioral aspects contribute strongly to energy transition processes.
2606	Giselle has been an active member of EMA since 2009, as EMA-LA Political Representation’s team member and, then, as Country Representative for Brazil promoting Erasmus Mundus and assisting prospective candidates.
2607	Given that older people generally have greater healthcare needs than younger people, it seems that this group has been disproportionately affected by the cuts.
2608	Given the blending of online and offline worlds, however, the distinction between the two worlds may be somewhat artificial.
2609	Given the difficulties the youth of Bulgaria face, in economic terms, and even simply in terms of having a system they can believe in, the fact that this event was organised with and for them meant a lot.
2610	Given the magnitude of the changes these three pillars demand, not only in the next five years but in much a longer time the candidate countries will not be able to fulfil the criteria.
2611	Given the number of stakeholders involved in efforts against climate change, this is an essential tool to exploit on a variety of levels.
2612	Given these results, the presented approaches allow for a practical estimation of pedestrian flows.
2613	Given users will be able to read text of this page and read/download its attachments.
2614	Give the name of the first party listed on each side.
2615	Giving Fotopedia a run for its money, National Geographic Today is located in the Education category on the iTunes App Store and works only with the iPad.
2616	GK: The objection may be that this overturns the bail-out clause.
2617	Glistening designed t your ex wife inaugural ball g haul for al first lady dianne bentley.
2618	Globally deploying solutions, Agfa HealthCare demonstrates the strength and flexibility of ORBIS by delivering a unified single platform along the customer's individual path to a fully integrated EMR.
2619	Global traffic on mobile broadband has outgrown predictions with current levels already exceeding 2020 targets.
2620	GLORIA can provide a way of getting thousands of observers and smart minds on astronomy problems that will help solving it easier and faster.
2621	Gloss achieved mainly cleaning, brushing and globin.
2622	GNF coordinates the International Living Lakes Network for the protection of lakes and wetlands and sustainable development of lake regions.
2623	GNSS chipset and receiver manufacturers are revving up for a multi-constellation GNSS universe that includes both GPS and Galileo, but also the Russian Glonass system and China’s Beidou.
2624	Go beyond the conventional public transport systems, look into walking and cycling modes, shared modes and pay special attention to other critical components of the transportation system, such as urban goods distribution.
2625	GoDo has thousands of activities and adventures Australia-wide including cooking classes, massage, wine tasting, scenic flights, bush walks, day tours, weekend getaways and more.
2626	Going back to earlier times, are you familiar, have you ever read any of the work by Philip or Paul Collins?
2627	"Good communication in the supply chain is good for business" Bridget Ginnity of ECHA gave advice to registrants and downstream users on communication in the supply chain.
2628	"Good fortune and fate designated Braunau on the Inn as a place of my birth."
2629	Good morning Cristina and very welcome to our discussion today.
2630	Google Analytics uses “cookies”, which are text files placed on your computer, to help us analyse how users use the Sites.
2631	Google has said it is looking into the implications of the decision.
2632	Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf.
2633	Gorila en el Parque Nacional Virunga Building a future in which humans live in harmony with nature.
2634	Gosnell’s prize possessions in his house of horrors,” (A: She’d be stuck in a jar, you see.) but “the medical professionals who found me after my biological mother’s failed abortion provided me with medical care that sustained my life.”
2635	Gothenburg (SE) and Gaziantep (TR) will also take part in the project as associated cities and will be expected to start smart renovation activities during this 5-year project.
2636	Government, business, broadcast and film archives as well as amateur collections and home videos are commonly used to spark memories and re-enact events from the past in various contexts.
2637	Governments and organizations such as the International Whaling Commission want to know more about whale populations in order to protect biodiversity and to make informed choices about possible hunting within certain limits.
2638	Governments don’t make anything.
2639	GPS: 50°5'48.12"N, 14°26'26.88"E The Negrelli Viaduct, is after the Charles Bridge, the second oldest still existing bridge over the river of Vltava in Prague.
2640	Grain based and granola cereals and whole wheat crackers are a lot healthier than other snacks that are a choice of children.
2641	Granny Maud wanted to see their new house and go exploring.
2642	Granted, this may be a tactical tool.
2643	Grant@vice builds on a strong expertise and over 20 years of experience in finding and obtaining financing.
2644	Graphene oxide (GO) prepared via an improved method with a high level of layer exfoliation and thermally reduced graphene oxide (RGO) obtained via thermal reduction of GO were used as the electrically conducting additive material.
2645	Grayson: It’s like this constant movement toward that one mind, one rule.
2646	Great guy, we need more like him?
2647	“Greece will have the Southern Gas Corridor which is pretty important and it is adding up to the energy diversification of Europe.
2648	Greek talks with finance ministers have broken up over this draft statement, which the Greeks have described as “absurd.”
2649	GreenCook's ambition is to create a lever effect, by generating a dynamic that motivates all of the food players and by throwing pathbreaking bridges with the fields of health, welfare and economic development.
2650	Green Digital Charter action tools Tools developed under the NiCE project to provide cities with a catalogue of recommended actions to implement the Green Digital Charter.
2651	Green energy clusters provide an effective support ans services to enterprises involved in renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors.
2652	Greg: As we saw creating this enemy against the United States.
2653	Greta Vainauskaitė holds a degree in International Relations and Public Policy and Management.
2654	Grid computing is the perfect solution for this task, given that simulations can be parsed into single parallel jobs.
2655	Groundwater in WFD progress on implement..
2656	Group 1 has priority over group 2 and 3, group 2 has priority over group 3. Inside the groups the Egean’s who registered the first get a higher place on the list.
2657	Growth in global food demand is now outstripping growth in supply.
2658	Gudrun Magnusdottir is Chief Strategy Officer and founder of ESTeam AB and Coreon GmbH.
2659	GUE/NGL MEPs signed a statement condemning Brussels' police refusal to authorise the European Spring march as it is in violation of the right to freedom of assembly.
2660	Guess their desires and they will be happy. 25 levelplatformer.
2661	Guest - JM on April 14, 2013 at 03:17 said: Very informative Aristoteles.
2662	Guests may not borrow materials.
2663	Guidelines Daily Amounts (GDAs) FEDIOL supports the principle of GDAs that can be indicated on a voluntary basis on BOP together with the fat-related nutrients.
2664	Guntars KRASTS (UEN, LV) said that the motor industry, like the construction sector, concentrates its resources in future development, but this is dependent on credit, so the sector is particularly badly hit by the credit crisis.
2665	Guys who have ten million dollars every year, guaranteed from the government, to give stinking flu shots that don’t work and make you sick.) and AstraZeneca are to share information in an unprecedented alliance.
2666	GVP, Module I Pharmacovigilance systems and their quality systems, defines the requirements to be fulfilled by QPPV.
2667	Gwendal Le Grand received his PhD in computer science from the University of Paris 6 in July 2001.
2668	Had stayed in Bialystok, do I feel like I know more about Poland now. 1 out of 1 found this review helpful In addition to social facilities … In addition to social facilities, engineering facilities and tools were really good.
2669	Had the Complainant discovered an infringement of his mark during those ten days, he would have had a putative action for infringement, which he could not effectively enforce until de facto registration had taken place.
2670	Had up country his to illustrate his lessons the neighborhood and after.
2671	Half its cargo was to be unloaded in Ireland, and that’s what they claimed, in came the potato fungus, or whatever it was, that started killing off the potatoes.
2672	Half of the social costs are incurred by banks and infrastructures, while the other half of all costs are incurred by retailers.
2673	HALLA luminaires on Light in Architecture exhibition in Prague!
2674	Handicapped applicants will be given preference in case of equal qualifications.
2675	Handle the endless influx of interplanetary dread, shoot the space zombies to their death and watch them disintegrate and die.
2676	Han Dolman (VUA) GHG-Europe data rich regions with different vulnerability to natural and anthropogenic drivers plus undersampled ecosystems (Mediterranean shrublands, Eastern European forests).
2677	Hansen tells us to expect 3-6+ metres of sea level rise this century.
2678	Hanson group demonstrate entanglement by measurement in solid state qubits..
2679	Harmonisation throughout SEPA means that payment service providers will be able to offer their services more easily to customers, regardless of location.
2680	Harp music will add a touch of class to any event.
2681	Has gone through within our bodies souls of his claim at court.
2682	Has noticeable moving parts to throw in that realism. procedural versus object oriented programming Download iata airport code list As much as bible concordance ware wanted to win lit, you find yourself flustered, scared, shocked, and sort of numb.
2683	Has there been any increase in the residents’ safety?
2684	Have a nice day guys (or night ) I see your purchase.
2685	Have we gathered the necessary means and wisdom to make decisions on the scale of the world problematique taking into account the exigencies of our time?
2686	Have you ever studied his genealogy and found out where he's from?
2687	Have you tried using Character Styles for this purpose.
2688	Having 136 substances on the Candidate List of substances of very high concern (SVHC) by the end of 2012 is the policy target set out by the Commission in spring 2010.
2689	Having developed a keen interest in topics related to international development during my Bachelor’s studies, I was enthusiastic to gain experience and increase my employability within a reputable international NGO.
2690	Having previously worked as a medical scientist, I have a strong interest in health issues, and in particularly rare diseases.
2691	Having seen its two previous attempts to enforce 'net neutrality' —the notion that all digital traffic should be treated equally by internet service providers (ISPs) — thrown out by the courts, the FCC is giving it another try.
2692	He added that, due to the evolution of the global market, international trade relations have significantly changed in the last twenty years.
2693	Headquartered in San Diego, Calif., Staccato Communications is an Ultra Wideband (UWB) technology pioneer with applications expertise in Certified Wireless USB, Bluetooth and WiNET Internet Protocol (IP) connectivity.
2694	He also has a lot of interesting things to say about iQ.
2695	He also likes to watch all kinds of movies, learn languages, discovering new food and places, travel around the world, make friends and develop long-term relationship with people.
2696	He also presented the idea and initiative during the International annual conference of Climate Alliance in Munich, Germany in May 2011.
2697	He also reminded that unions should be regarded as both defenders of the social rights and compulsory components of Turkish membership process to fulfill the European Commission’s guidelines for democracy.
2698	He also talks about hidden masters the same as theosophy, which is just an ordained branch of freemasonry.
2699	He also worked as Senior Solution Architect leading several international R&D teams for Siemens, and as Chief Engineer represented Siemens Networks on IPTV Standardization forums.
2700	Health care team and the work in it Sources of literature reading, self-study assignments and presentations, peer review, discussion.
2701	Health Care Your baby will peri his or her regular check-ups and shots (immunizations) to protect against serious diseases.
2702	He and my oldest son proceeded to open the door with brute strength so that I could drive out and go on my errands.
2703	He argues that conflicts will not arise over the resource itself but rather when climate change induces large flows of environmental refugees.
2704	Heat dissipation in microelectronics, for example, has been identified as the major bottleneck towards further miniaturization of electronic components.
2705	He became involved in film funding in 1983 as the managing director of Hamburg’s cultural film fund, before going on to serve in a series of organizations.
2706	He believed that Brussels was a fundamentally anti-democratic set of institutions whose increasing power would be detrimental to the interests of Europe’s peoples.
2707	He believes that further integration of the euro area at a macroeconomic level is absolutely essential to the greatest extent possible and based on the community principle.
2708	He can also choke.
2709	He certainly changed the power station.
2710	He collaborated with many research institutes and universities as a teacher and researcher.
2711	He compared it to other US-based online campaigns to draw out their similarities and determine what their success means for democracy.
2712	He contributed to various IPCC reports.
2713	He could motivate people into action and that’s what they didn’t want.
2714	He could remember something like this lump because, a long time ago, a friend of a friend had found something like this in the sand.
2715	He developed a research programme on structure and dynamics of forests, carbon and nutrient cycles, ecological interactions in forest ecosystems as well as the adaptation of forests to global change.
2716	He devoted his life to young people, especially to the poor and problematic ones and he entrusted his followers with this mission.
2717	He’d give lectures and he mentioned that often in his speeches.
2718	He didn’t even put a plastic bag on his head, like he did with his patients.
2719	He didn’t sit and, well, I’ll leave it all to God.
2720	He emphasised that the circular economy can deliver significant cost savings and business opportunities for SMEs, when they are supported by enabling framework conditions, as hoped to be put in place through these two policies.
2721	He encourages further applications for the 2012 edition.
2722	He especially insisted that “Mayors must show the example in all our cities.”
2723	He explained that DRR funding should be part of development funding which is done differently, for example, any investment in water management should systematically consider flooding issues and incorporate risk reduction measures.
2724	He explained that implementing a digital agenda should be a high-level political effort and should include an entire set of actions which would contribute to the social and economic advancement of the country.
2725	He got an order to pick up some VIPs coming from faraway land with his brand new tires sedan.
2726	He got only very limited access to some of them and did not obtain any further feedback.
2727	He graduated from the Faculty of Economics and Administration at Masaryk University in Brno (Czech Republic) and earned master degree on the University of Aberdeen (UK).
2728	He hardly knew whether on them with his of swelling especially at.
2729	He has a big payment and in effect has been rewarded bid style for abusing the system years ago and most definitely in years 2000-2002 Work published on capreform.eu is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License.
2730	He has asked members to use the August break to consult and reflect and to wait until September before giving their views on the implications for the rest of the post-Bali agenda.
2731	He has a wealth of experience planning and managing large project.
2732	He has been coordinator of the Stream and CumuloNimbo projects and he is technical coordinator of the CoherentPaaS and LeanBigData projects.
2733	He has been involved in several of the Royal Society’s science policy studies and chaired the study on Geoengineering the Climate in 2009.
2734	He has been Manchester University co-ordinator for the EC programme Dynamics of Institution and Markets in Europe (DIME).
2735	He has documented the development and modification of the mantle lithosphere on which the continents rest and he has unravelled the long-standing tangle of growth and cannibalism in models of crustal growth.
2736	He has led several Open Data projects for local and regional governments in Spain, has co-chaired the Open Data initiative for the national government of Spain (awarded as the most-friendly in Europe) and has served in European Open Data expert panels.
2737	He has published in the field of veterinary medicine with a particular focus on listeria and milk hygiene.
2738	He has recently been awarded an Erasmus Mundus Fellowship to undertake an Eras-mus Mundus Joint Doctorate in Globalisation, the EU and Multilateralism.
2739	He has said that the subjects which interest him are those ‘issues that puzzle us throughout the years, forming our way of looking at the world, changing us.’
2740	He has taught different subjects, such as, statistical physics, optics, mathematical methods for physicists, general physics, etc. and also in the masters in Physics of Complex Systems and Advanced Physics and Applied Mathematics of the UIB.
2741	He heads the labor movement’s efforts to create an economy based on broadly shared prosperity and to hold government and employers accountable to working families.
2742	He holds the Chair of Construction Economics and Management and he is the Head of School of Built and Natural Environment at the University of Central Lancashire.
2743	He hopes that this event will further strengthen the relationship between Belgium, Germany, and Croatia.
2744	Hehpsehboah: What’s so amazing, to hear George Bush say that he did not want any cloning, any experimentation, any with DNA, or anything like it.
2745	Heidi Stöckl is a Lecturer at the Social and Mathematical Epidemiology Group and the Gender Violence and Health Centre in the Department of Global Health and Development at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
2746	Heinrich Otto Wieland (1877 to 1957) and has been awarded every year since 1964.
2747	He introduced new techniques in the treatment of materials, such as trencadis, a special type of mosaic made of waste ceramic pieces.
2748	He is a Lecturer in Environmental and Public Health Economics at the European Centre for Environment and Human Health in the University of Exeter Medical School based in Truro, Cornwall, UK.
2749	He is also a member of the PI.lab (Privacy & Identity lab), a collaboration between TNO, Tilburg University, Radboud University and SIDN.
2750	He is also pleased that the discussion about merging the regional broadcasting within the national broadcaster in no longer on the table.
2751	He is also responsible for the Research and Development Group of the DSCHOLA association in Turin.
2752	He is also the author of “Marketing Culture in the Digital Age: A Report on New Business Collaborations between Libraries, Museums, Archives, and Commercial Companies”.
2753	He is also very engaged with children having a difficult social background.
2754	He is an elected member and Chair of the section of Earth and Cosmic Sciences of the Academia Europaea, and a member of the Royal Society of Canada.
2755	He is a “spatialist”, specialised in identifying the right data, processing it and turning it into innovative information products.
2756	He is a spokesperson for the German Computer Science Society’s Special Interest Group on Virtual and Augmented Reality, and is a co-author of about 150 peer-reviewed publications.
2757	He is co-author of two books related to marine control surfaces and propulsor design.
2758	He is considering a career in the technology field.
2759	He is Editor-in-Chief of Elsevier Computer Communications and Associate Editor-in-Chief of Elsevier Pervasive and Mobile Computing.
2760	He is experienced in data journalism, interactive storytelling and cross border project management.
2761	“He is forever chasing UKIP’s tail, desperately trying to appease his braying backbenchers, and in so doing he is in danger of sleepwalking towards the EU exit door, risking billions in investment and millions of jobs.”
2762	He is former International Director and Director of Timber Technology and Construction Centre of BRE.
2763	He is founder and chairman of ThalesNano Inc., a leading flow chemistry corporation, chairman of the Flow Chemistry Society (Switzerland).
2764	He is known for his merciless attitude towards critics, and has even directed a documentary film devoted to them.
2765	He is mathematician and sociologist (PhD) with long experience in urban sociology, strategic urban development, housing policy and EU regional policy issues.
2766	He is one of the main reasons we managed to get the system killed in the Dutch Senate.
2767	He is presently Associate Professor at the Nizhny Novgorod State Technical University.
2768	He is specialized in antitrust and trade rules; he is currently located in Beijing, China.
2769	He is talking with big French energy companies about collaboration.
2770	He is the Founder of the Internet of People consultancy group, and member of Council, an international Internet of Things Think Tank.
2771	He is traveling across the country meeting with local government officials, college professors and business communities to discuss the negotiations regarding the Transatlantic Trade Investment Partnership (TTIP).
2772	He joined the AKKA Technologies Group in 2001.
2773	He kicked the bucket together with bro in close proximty of in place in broadly exactly the same thing handle.
2774	He laid out the agenda on behalf of the Council on Foreign Relations.
2775	Helge Torgersen tries to explain why a debate on Neuro-Enhancement is required.
2776	Helping to provide a secure and stable supply of electricity The UK's variable weather means that the power generated from renewable energy sources fluctuates constantly.
2777	Helping vulnerable mothers and their children in Russia The project is about the prevention of children from institutionalisation; supporting vulnerable mothers and preventing young child abandonment.
2778	Help Mario to destroy all zombies and overcome 12 levels.
2779	Help Santa to fix his elves.
2780	Help them get some justice after 300 years of Bedlam and Inquisition?
2781	Help the prince to save his only love - the Princess of Mahjong from the evil gu..
2782	He met and was friends with VIPs and with many "ordinary" citizens.
2783	He met Zack through this group and now counts Zack as one On his way to work, Bart sees the “Star- cents” community.
2784	Hence it is possible to acquire a CDS without necessarily own the matching debt bond.
2785	Hence it requires very little changes to be done on the web server part.
2786	Hence, participants will get the chance not only to learn about the specifics of border regions in theory, but explore it first hand.
2787	Hence the Directives on Environmental Assessment are crucial tools for sustainable development.
2788	Hence, there is a particular need of countries with weak liberaltraditions to increase the capacity of Liberals in order to influence thepublic debate.
2789	Hence two number system hexadecimal and octal.
2790	He noted that almost every country in Europe allows LPG vehicles in underground parking facilities.
2791	He notes that ‘Russia’s strong lack of interest in legitimate cooperation (…) has left the Baltics weary of the attempts and mostly concerned with NATO’s traditional territorial defence as the alliance enters a new era with new threats’.
2792	HENRIK – And if we are to take, again, the mirror loop kind of idea about history and mythology, that the destruction of Atlantis, obviously again, is going to be mirrored in the destruction of America, if that is the “New Atlantis.”
2793	He presented the operations which allow the production, the quality control, and the dissemination of the portfolio products.
2794	He pressed back the upon such a sight.
2795	He published it in his book.
2796	Here and there in this picture gold sparkles, as it does in many of his pieces.
2797	Here are these big companies putting it all in, paying people to write it into soaps and the names of their brands and what they are on and what pills are good and so on and so on.
2798	Here at West USA Realty you will find everything you'll need to buy or sell a home, as well as learn about today’s Local Arizona Real Estate Values in your area.
2799	Here bellow you have the letter that 21 MEPs sent for the attention of Commissioner De Gucht, EU Member States and companies sourcing from Rana Plaza Let's put the end to the Troika This Wednesday we discussed two reports on the job of the Troika.
2800	Hereby, possible deviations can be corrected at an early stage.
2801	He recalled that a majority of the European Parliament has put its support behind the call to establish this legal status.
2802	He received his Juris Doctorate from the University of Notre Dame Law School.
2803	He received his MS in 2007 and PhD in 2009, both in Electric Power Engineering, from the ECSE Department at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI).
2804	He received quite a number of scientific and professional awards (e.g. for several times the prize of the Academy of Sciences of Czechoslovak Republic).
2805	Here, Europe's presence is already strong.
2806	He referred to it, himself, in CP Snow’s books, as Zionism.
2807	Here is another article to help discourage people having children again.
2808	Here is a wonderful selection of download illuminati videos from the Illuminati Archives and occult media library.
2809	Here is how to..
2810	Here is Part B of the interview, which (as you will see) focuses more on Greece and the chances of kickstarting the debate that Europe is refusing to have, so far….
2811	Here is what they do to you… argh, oh, anyway.
2812	He requested to be included in the law for indebted households, but he considers that, even though the law seemingly supports the interests of the consumers, in the end, it serves the interests of the banks.
2813	Here's an article here, again from Britain, it ties right in to what I said, you know.
2814	Here's one article here, that ties up some of the system in which we live and where it's supposed to go and it was aired on CPAC, there's actually a video attached to it; I'll leave the link at the end of the show.
2815	Here, thermal lamination was employed to prepare tubular-channel piezoelectrets from low-density polyethylene (LDPE) films.
2816	Here thousands of cubic meters of mud, are spewed out every day from a 100 m sized central crater.
2817	Here, we analyse how NetInf can provide CDN-like functionality – without the limitations of current CDN technology.
2818	Here we're in Disneyland as I say or the Wizard of Oz land.
2819	Here what Syriza says – which is summarized in the previous article by Yanis: “Greece can’t stand on its own feet”.
2820	Here you are again, another holy term here, a new priesthood.
2821	Here you can find information about Creative.
2822	Here you have to confirm that the gather was completely played.
2823	Here you'll find basic and detailed introductions to hundreds of dating sites and matchmaking services as well as many articles about online dating, singles, love and finding a partner.
2824	Here, you'll find terrific tools that will help you save time and money when buying or selling great Hoover AL real estate.
2825	Heritage conservation as such has a long tradition in Germany.
2826	Her mother was born in Hungary, in the area of the famous Tokaj wines, and her father in Deva, a Transylvanian town.
2827	Heroes cannot obtain medals, pa ck in the case of the Mos Eisley Assault level, where you can earn Endurance, Guardian der riese map pack War Hero.
2828	Her presentation was completed with 5 examples of national strategies in Belgium, Austria, Ireland, Czech Republic and Sweden.
2829	Her research interests include Anthropology, Cultural and Post-colonial Studies, with a focus on contemporary art and representations of the body.
2830	Her sensitivity and smartness literally take over the big screen the minute she appears.
2831	Her work became a kind of image and structure of reality, and then she playfully juxtaposed the frottages with collage elements – an homage to her relatives and to the unspoken.
2832	He said, it’s far better that an intelligent force, intelligentsia and bankers, who are used to dealing with economies, run the world, rather than leave it to the national interest groups to steer it the way they want to go, into chaos and wars.
2833	He said, ‘Life is never going to be the same again.’
2834	He said more consultation with social partners and stronger partnerships across local, national and European levels would help shape policies that really respond to, and are tailored to, people’s needs.
2835	He said that public discussion will probably be required to explain the benefits of a regional approach to solid waste management in the seven municipalities.
2836	He said this would be used across whole continents.
2837	He says Macedonia can never have success at the international stage due to the fact the team is split and operates in Clans.
2838	He says, most people are just maggots.
2839	He says that the Eurozone is not “a café one can go in and out from at any time” and that membership of the Eurozone is permanent.
2840	He says, we can now do it and upgrade the system every five years by getting the children young, and every intake four years apart, five years, give them a step up further along our agenda.
2841	He says we won't have to take the children from the parents at birth.
2842	He sells only one at a time.
2843	He served as the EU Advisor to the President of Poland in the years 1996-2000.
2844	He set up an organization to recruit young budding authors, people who could be groomed to be authors, and H.G. Wells was one of them.
2845	He's got a BS in Economics and a MS in Quantitative Finance.
2846	He/she will be responsible for advising and managing, under the supervision of the Head of Section, the implementation of the development assistance and of financial and technical cooperation with Montenegro in selected sectors.
2847	He skillfully rejects the conclusions that others have drawn on the basis of deliberately changed circumstances.
2848	He specialises in topics concerning the future of modern democracy, ranging from the EU’s democratic deficit to the relationship between political participation and social inequality.
2849	He's put up as the Green Man for the whole Green Movement and they're even having him on weekly shows in the states shortly on greening, on programs on greening and green environments for your home.
2850	He started off with three quotes: - The world is in a mess.
2851	He starved him to death in a torture chamber.
2852	He’s the guy who helped throw out the cash there that’s all gone down the drain with all the new experimental ways of getting energy.
2853	He stressed the importance of real-time analysis in order to have actionable information at the right time and place.
2854	He stressed the need for any legislation requests to be backed by strong, foolproof arguments and data.
2855	He talked about creating special types of humans for specialized jobs; exactly along Plato’s Republic idea because he suggested that thousands of years ago.
2856	He talked about ongoing Revolution.
2857	He teaches research techniques and methods at universities and to professionals.
2858	He told Yeltsin in 1999: “I am not qualified.”
2859	He took charge of Repsol’s Corporate Responsibility in 2007.
2860	He took part in the International Exchange Programme with the Leonard N. Stern Business School at New York University.
2861	He updated Catherine Ashton on recent Incident Prevention and Response Mechanism and bilateral meetings with the Russian FSB border guards.
2862	He was about to cast off his lines and get out of Canada as fast as the wind would take him.
2863	He was dressed up in his Sunday best dress, stuff like that.
2864	He was forced to review the proposal on several occasions due to tough opposition, even within the Commission itself.
2865	He was imprisoned in 2011 and is on hunger strike.
2866	He was researcher at the research group "Business Cycles and Growth" of the Center for European Economic Research (ZEW) in Mannheim from November 2007 to December 2013.
2867	He was talking to reporters.
2868	He was the manager of the Western Australian Pregnancy Cohort (Raine) Study at the Telethon Kids Institute in Perth for a period of 10 years.
2869	He will be mayor of a town called Selby, where many people live.
2870	He will have to negotiate with other contestants, predict the outcomes of votes in the real European Parliaments, and answer questions regarding the European Union.
2871	He without a doubt denies the existence of distinction between law creation and law application, and he posits that judges are norm creators, as the judicial decision itself is a norm.
2872	Hey, but I’ve read in newspapers that it was a fight between Pro-Europeans and Pro-Russian, is it wrong?
2873	HG leather balm is suitable for all types of smooth leather.
2874	HG scale away 3x stronger does not affect chrome, glaze or grouting.
2875	HGTV is another influence that has taught many that original tile and practical, period appropriate materials like Marmoleum are no good.
2876	HG whiter than white special detergent for white wash prevents and removes yellowing, greying and colouring, and removes dirt and stains.
2877	HI also owner of account nancymccain No everyone loses everything.
2878	Hi Folks, we’re back Cutting Through the Matrix and we’ll go to the callers.
2879	High-dimensional methods aim at computationally tractable model selection and inference in models with many more possible unknowns than observations when there is some parsimony or approximate parsimony.
2880	• High importance/ high uncertainties driving forces.
2881	Highlights from our EU urban agenda seminar We launched our statement on an EU urban agenda at 'CiTIES: cities of tomorrow - investing in Europe' on 17-18 February 2014.
2882	Highly acidic foods are also unfavorable for lpr reflux disease because it triggers excessive amounts of acid.
2883	High-powered proprietary blend of herbs mixed with potent levels of B-vitamins, and key amino acids, make for a rocket powered lift any time of the day.
2884	High-quality study and PhD degrees are made more available to students in order to create a global educational network, achievable through student and staff mobility.
2885	High side driver/Low side driver Built-in H-Bridge structure in 1 package by multi-chip-package technology for motor applications with lock current less than 30A.
2886	His age for he this before have not you 1d visuals this.
2887	His background is that of a renaissance man with a background in three professions, plus having various books published in religions, philosophy, poetry, mainly under pseudonyms.
2888	His doctor of laws thesis (Melit.1986) on data protection law was published by the Norwegian University Press in 1987 and has since been followed by several other publications in the field of privacy and data protection.
2889	His empirical approach is diverse, encompassing a combination of cross-national statistical analysis, historical case studies and behavioural experiments.
2890	His first-hand experience of the Norwegian Workers’ Party, which as a governing party had developed a pragmatic version of social democracy, was to have a lasting influence on Brandt’s political credo and activities.
2891	His government was brought down in Wi by allegations of corruption and was followed by V. Singh and then Chandra Shekhar.
2892	His message to the islands working for sustainable energy development is: "Do what you can on your own terms even if the path towards the energy goals 2020 seems long and hard.
2893	His mother, Eileen, gave him his first astronomy lesson when he returned home from school one day and found her in the backyard watching an eclipse of the sun.
2894	His motive was to raise people’s awareness.
2895	His novel and innovative research is, therefore, having an impact not only on the science but also on policy.
2896	His petition, alleging his juvenile status at the time of the crime and torture while in custody to extract a confession, was not given due consideration.
2897	His profound musical sensivity, breathtaking virtuosity and tonal finesse add an extra quality to Guitar4mation's sound.
2898	His research activity is focused on Wireless Sensor and Actuators Networks, RFID Technology, embedded systems and ICT solutions.
2899	His researches focus on the generation of generic and safe motions for complex systems such as humanoid robots, human avatars, hexapod robots, robotics hand.
2900	His research focuses on international dispute settlement and the role of international courts and tribunals within international legal regimes.
2901	His research focuses on the developmental origins of health and disease subsequent to moderate maternal nutrient restriction such as can occur even in developed societies, teenage pregnancy and elderly primigravidae with cardiovascular problems.
2902	His research has focused on the comparative analysis of surveillance technologies and privacy protection policies at the domestic and international levels.
2903	His research interests are in various aspects of Computer-Aided-Design (CAD) and design methodologies for Emerging nanotechnologies.
2904	His research interests focus on managing large-scale engineering programs, particularly on the application of risk management and lean management techniques.
2905	His research interests include political participation, electoral behaviour, political parties and local politics.
2906	His short film NANI, world premiered in competition at the Berlin International Film Festival.
2907	His team measured the Bt toxin concentrations in maize plants as part of a research project spanning several years.
2908	Historically, government-sponsored research on the U.S. Arctic has been driven not by that hallmark of science, curiosity, but by the desire to drill for oil and gas – by, that is, two impulses that are quite unscientific in nature.
2909	Historische Ereignisse des europäischen Aufbauwerks (1945-2009) The enlargement of the European Union will continue, but its limits are not set by the 1993 Copenhagen criteria.
2910	His work concerns aerosol indirect effects in global climate models and in satellite data.
2911	His work has been published in several leading technology publications.
2912	Hitachi Data Systems has the solution How can we inspire better, faster transport?
2913	HIV is spreading continuously since the 1980s and is a worldwide epidemic (pandemia).
2914	Hluboké Mašůvky 1, Hluboké Mašůvky We offer accommodation in six rooms with extra beds.
2915	Holding a PhD in economics, his major research interests are agricultural policy and trade performance analysis.
2916	Hold on and I'll talk to you once we come back from this break.
2917	HoliDes addresses also development process.
2918	Home About HG All HG products News Working at HG HG All HG products HG spots and stains pre-wash HG spots and stains pre-wash is a “directly active” formula.
2919	Home » Advanced Engineering Materials and Technologies (EuMat) Advanced Engineering Materials and Technologies (EuMat) Materials are everywhere; they make modern life possible and constitute the basis of the welfare of mankind.
2920	Homeland Security has warned states not to reject the "voluntary" cards."
2921	Home » Latest from EU Member States » “Food is our Right not a Commodity” “Food is our Right not a Commodity” Two months ago, from 26 to 28 October, the 8th Forum of Plataforma Rural took place in Gernika, in Basque Country, Spain.
2922	Home - News Latest News DILIGENT team managed to integrate GWT with JSR 168 portlets DILIGENT team managed to integrate GWT with JSR 168 portlets We are pleased to inform you that we managed to integrate GWT with JSR 168 portlets.
2923	Homepage > Archive by tag 'vrsar art' New photos in Photo Gallery. August 2011.
2924	Home » Press » Events » Clean Sky Forum The Clean Sky Forum took place on 17 March 2015.
2925	HomeResourcesDisplaying items by tag: Active citizenship Volunteers needed for the setup of the European Civil Society House ECAS is looking for Volunteers from all over the European Union to help with the setup of the European Civil Society House.
2926	Home » Tools & Publications » Seminar reports As part of our mission to raise awareness and share information, good practice and advice with a wide range of audiences, we organise many events throughout the year.
2927	Home › travel update › 1.5.
2928	Home » What we do » Climate & Energy » EU Climate & Energy Publications Letter to the European Heads of State and Government on the REFIT proposal from the European Commission Solar panels on a bank building in Berlin, Germany.
2929	Honduras made it 2-0 on a goal by Chavez, who came off the bench.
2930	Hope for the best, good luck to all Scored 71/80, AD5 profile.
2931	HORSE & 8-Game Mix (Mixed games) HORSE (Hold'em, Omaha, Razz, Seven Card Stud, Seven Card Stud Eight-or- Better) is the collection of games that allows you to prove how well-rounded a poker player you are.
2932	Hosting a number of substantial and vibrant research centres, we received the second highest position in the country in terms of 'world-leading' research (4*) in the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise.
2933	Hosts are shown inside the window of their LAN.
2934	Hotel Homestay Gauri KeĹľmarok (KeĹľmarok) Situated in the centre of KeĹľmarok town and set in a reconstructed historical building, Homestay Gau.
2935	Hotel offers a pleasant environment for its guests in a stylish cafe and restaurant.
2936	Hotel rooms have been pre-reserved for the Annual Meeting and CA Conference in a number of hotels in Madrid ranging in price and location.
2937	Housing conditions affect people’s health.
2938	How are you finding the native american american native indians your job contemporary society?
2939	How can consumers be made more sensitive to the relations between consumption behavior and development policy?
2940	How can finance be reformed so that it can foster innovation and reindustrialisation in Europe?
2941	How can I include the grand total in the modloade chart.
2942	How can James Baker state that, yes we agreed not to expand NATO to the East with Gorbachev but….
2943	How can the risk of contamination be reduced during the fermentation process using Lentikats Biotechnology?
2944	How can we envision and revise our own cultures in the light of those of others?
2945	How can we get the most out of this present crisis?
2946	How can we guarantee reasonable a payback time for those who invest in energy efficiency?
2947	How can we make them more compatible – especially in important sectors like automotive, chemicals, health, financial services and ICT?
2948	How can you publish a post which says that a person who was handed over by the Gestapo to Franco’s police and shot by the fascists “got what he deserved”!
2949	How Cedefop supports implementation Cedefop’s work on qualifications frameworks dates back to 2003.
2950	How could Klára have Polish nationality if she did not have a Polish passport?
2951	How dangerous is your Android app?
2952	How did CBI assist the Indian electronics sector?
2953	How does Axxor relate to FSC?
2954	How does it compare to other sectors?
2955	How does this balance of recent years look like according to the authors?
2956	How do I add my own styling/CSS?
2957	How do I get rid of this?
2958	How do students learn from multiple representations?
2959	How do we decide where to stay?
2960	How do you know which type of wastewater treatment system is needed?
2961	However, a basic level of information (e.g. maps, signage) on the infrastructure is required prior to any specific campaign.
2962	However, action by one part of the food chain alone is not enough and there is still significant potential for further cross-sector initiatives in this domain.
2963	However, after collecting interviews from acquaintances, she understood that there is still a strong sense of unity among Italians.
2964	However all the political leaders are aware that the country cannot afford lengthy negotiations as far as the creation of the next government is concerned.
2965	However, all these years later there are still issues around integrating the care pathway in healthcare organisations.
2966	However, an impressive abundance of high quality digital content that is available in Natural History Museums (NHMs) around Europe remains largely unexploited due to a number of barriers.
2967	However, as with any starting point, there’s still plenty more untapped potential for us to uncover and explore.
2968	However, both organisations have expressed a willingness to extend the programme for another two years depending on the results of this first phase.
2969	However, by 1942 more and more Croats were already joining the partisans; and when Italy surrendered in 1943, Dalmatia was in total control of Croatian Partisan hands, which bolstered their numbers.
2970	However, current methods for detecting biomarker in CSF are far from ideal.
2971	However, data has yet to be added from five countries in the Persian Gulf, including the United Arab Emirates, a country that has scored well in the past, Gallup officials said.
2972	However, despite these applications’ ability to support social action, their use puts individual privacy at considerable risk.
2973	However, despite these developments, there is still cause for great alarm.
2974	However, enlightenment generally refers to an energy boost being released inside the human.
2975	However, ERA had so far no official status in the relationship with OTIF other than to bring support to the EC representative.
2976	However, escaping her preordained destiny as a woman from the ghetto (either as a gangster’s prostitute or as a married woman) is not as easy as she thinks..
2977	However, establishing common terminology and common standards has proven to be a non-trivial task and resulted in establishment of a Virtual Institute for Quantum Control for continuity of the effort and improved outreach.
2978	However, for as a commercial company it is not enough just to increase the value of your products; you must also find sustainable ways to have customers reflect that value back to you in the form of increased revenues and profits.
2979	However, global features yield poor results on semantic queries where the user is not interested in the overall image but in certain sub-images containing particular objects.
2980	However, he also studied with Jean Pierre Rampal (Paris, Nice), Severino Gazzeloni (Rome), André Jaunet (Zurich) and Hubert Barwähser (Amsterdam).
2981	However I absolutely agree that Ukraine should solve the situation regarding Yulia Tymoshenko, and I my raise voice when Tymoshenko’s rights are violated and even more when rights are strongly violated.
2982	However, if there is human contact with metallic objects in the high-frequency EMF field, then this can lead to shocks and burns as adverse indirect effects.
2983	However, in our case where very large datasets exist, it is preferable to have persistently stored the RDF graph in order to directly apply the SPARQL queries over them leading to a much better query evaluation performance.
2984	However, in Parts IB and II one written examination can be substituted with two extended essays of 3,000-4,000 words.
2985	However, in the last few studies they've found that almost 90 percent don't care.
2986	However, it has been abused and politicians involved have not been trustworthy, therefore, as another poster wrote, it has to be open and all dealings regarding said lobby made available to all.
2987	However, it has been shown that the extent of the sexual activities performed online did not gradually develop with the acquisition of offline sexual experience.
2988	However, it has decent quality.
2989	However, I think this is only one of many possible measures to reduce pollution in Europe.
2990	However, it is necessary to get enough confidence and trust in the tools and toolchain that are used in order to achieve the required level of safety.
2991	However, it is yet difficult for consumers to comprehend landscape outcomes of their consumption choices and of different policies.
2992	However, it may well prevent oil prices from rising even higher.
2993	However, lower R&D investment in the EU compared to the US does not necessarily mean that individual EU ICT companies invest less in R&D than their international competitors.
2994	However, may it be manual or electric, those garage door openers function the same way.
2995	However, Montenegro needs to strengthen competitiveness, by improving productivity and attracting further Foreign Direct Investments into other sectors in addition to tourism and real estate.
2996	However, most of works on ontological security data representation does not take into account the ontologies of security metrics.
2997	However, Mr Juncker added that, during this period, the “Western Balkans will need to keep a European perspective”.
2998	However, negative long-term effects of the treatment on honeybees are expected.
2999	However, no such physiological acclimatisation occurs in response to repeated cold exposures, just behavioural adaptations.
3000	However, open research and discussions have not been the norm for new issues at the WTO, especially if the topic is controversial, like trade and foreign exchange, for example.
3001	However, organisations or even end users looking for ERM solutions could benefit from MoReq2 requirements, as they may help to develop Requests for Proposals / Requests for Information and Proofs of Concept.
3002	However, other drug-related treatment (mainly psychosocial interventions) is also delivered by NGOs, supported by public funding.
3003	However, payment delay may itself prove costly.
3004	However, poor procedures can be a reason for people not following recommended actions.
3005	However, priority will be given to qualified proposals only.
3006	However, rather than giving up and leaving the issue to national governments, Mr.
3007	However, recent events have shown “that Moscow will not let former Soviet countries choose their own path” and it therefore remains crucial for the European Union to revitalise the Eastern Partnership agreement.
3008	However, recent observations of solar wind turbulence have revealed an interesting contradiction with this approach.
3009	However research has shown that teachers are often unsure of their new emerging roles once technology-enhanced learning has been introduced in the classroom (see for example Sutherland et al., 2008).
3010	However, sensor network peculiarities and the distributive nature of the database implementation introduce some differences.
3011	However she was taught the piano, first by her mother, the violin and musical composition.
3012	However, since both countries allow dual citizenship only in exceptional cases at present, I won't strive to get Czech citizenship.
3013	However stainless products tend for intemperance is not without even realizing they variously called the.
3014	However, such legislation would not affect or change the decentralised nature of Bitcoin based on a global peer-to-peer network functioning under the Bitcoin protocol (see section II.2.
3015	However, the alloy is susceptible to the development of strong textures during thermomechanical processing that leads to a preferred crystallographic orientation.
3016	However, the collection is missing one element - a manuscript.
3017	However the competitive ELISA is currently the serological test the most routinely used.
3018	However, the document does not mention how to support it.
3019	However, the FIRE projects to date have yet to set up a federated testbed for European researchers.
3020	However, the highlight of the conference was the award for outstanding achievements in the area of green procurement that the City of Kolding received.
3021	However, their use is particularly controversial as they affect all young people indiscriminately.
3022	However, the lack of comparative source codes generally makes it hard to evaluate the extent to which implementations of different ciphers actually reach their low-cost goals on various platforms.
3023	However, the memory of it still remains alive.
3024	However the paper also highlights that integration can highlight conflicts where reaching one objective such as road safety, may have tensions for another.
3025	However, there are stronger feelings about immigrants and those of a different race.
3026	However, the recognition of bacteria by NK cells is only poorly understood. we do not know how bacteria are recognized and the functional consequences of such recognition are also weakly understood.
3027	However, there is no general rule, nor this requirement is regulated.
3028	However, the report shows that a range of other issues – not wages – are at the origin of the competitiveness problem.
3029	However, these cloud solutions are typically heterogeneous and the provided features are often incompatible.
3030	However these proposals now need to be translated into an operational policy that delivers in practice.
3031	However the tools used for eParticipation in these environments have to differ from those used on normal computers or mobile devices to make use of these opportunities.
3032	However, the understanding of the underlying mechanisms and their interactions is still limited.
3033	However, the Welsh offense after that was restricted to a solo home run by Matt Burnett in the fourth inning.
3034	However, they are still very rigid and do not adapt to the context of the readers.
3035	However they presented separate lists during the general elections.
3036	However, this generation is still being born and very young.
3037	However, this is not the time for complacency.
3038	However, this rapid growth has created global unbalances in the current market.
3039	However, this technique is beset with a number of practical and technical complications.
3040	However those channels went haywire in consequence of too many calls and accesses.
3041	However, updated notifications cannot be specifically flagged because the notifications that are classified in the same way are aggregated for display purposes.
3042	However, we know next to nothing about the mechanisms of translation, toxicity, aggregation and clearance of DPR proteins.
3043	How is the initiative financed and staffed?
3044	How is this best achieved?
3045	How many rights i have They have the same… They can be president, they can be priminister.
3046	• How might the Museum of the Future be imagined?
3047	How much money did your party receive for the last elections?
3048	How much money EIF expects to come from Applicants themselves?
3049	How should flexibility be fought out in the European arena?
3050	How should it mallu sex hot videos and his conscience and cannot perceive a fresh if he.
3051	How should we reduce the drop out rate when we don’t even have the enrollment rate (in the case of cutting budgets to universities all over Europe, leaving only federal ones).
3052	How's the winter treating you?
3053	• how they are different from other means of delivering infrastructure.
3054	How To Articles E nglish, even most, Seagate and Maxtor-brand external drives are sold bully scholarship edition cheats wii english bundled backup and management software.
3055	How to made money online.
3056	How to use the charting tool?
3057	How useful is virtual screening for finding targets you don’t want to bind to?
3058	"How will our future cities look?"
3059	How will the ECB provide the same standards of supervision for each of them?
3060	How would she respond to Betka?
3061	HTML (2565 начини на показване) The Urban Atlas is providing pan-European comparable land use and land cover data for Large Urban Zones with more than 100.000 inhabitants as defined by the Urban Audit.
3062	Hua Wang is a full time professor in Victoria University, Australia.
3063	Hundreds of thousands of people continue to be detained across the country in violation of their fundamental human rights.
3064	Hungarian politicians would surely argue that this is exactly what the new provisions on nationality do.
3065	Hunger, poverty and war also seem to be accepted as facts of life.
3066	Hurry, come to our site while we have good printer stock.
3067	Hurt by withering reviews and perhaps some bad timing, "Sex and the City 2" - despite its pedigree - came in third place on its opening weekend, grossing less money over five days than the original made in three.
3068	Huxley, who is your favorite author?"
3069	H+V February 2011 Computerised systems should be reviewed periodically to confirm that they remain in a validated state.
3070	Hybrid is at the core of our strategy towards sustainable mobility, but we also see a role for clean diesel in Europe.
3071	Hydrogen passes over one electrode and oxygen over the other.
3072	Hyperthermia combined with 3D-CRT is discussed as an interesting treatment option.
3073	IAB Russia works closely with wide range of market stakeholders in order to achieve this goal.
3074	I accept that this would be almost unprecedented: most such treaties, unlike elected governments, are “valid indefinitely”(17).
3075	I agree with much of Costica Dumbrava writes.
3076	I agree with this statement.
3077	I also downloaded a program which allows me to convert customer account data to IBAN and BIC3.
3078	I also enjoy preparing food in the kitchen, including algaenever, an algae spirit drink; seawead curry; spirulina tagliatelli and even algae cup cakes!
3079	I also holds a PhD in social Geography (Université du Maine, Le Mans, 2013).
3080	I also think that English should be adopted as an official second language and taught in every EU school; it would make a huge difference to communication.
3081	I am a AMF staff player and PBA member since 1989.
3082	I am actually taking a break from the slavishly hard work to update the blog (vanity publishing always gets in the way of work).
3083	I am also positive that German factory workers prefer to work rather than shopping for Siemens washing machines, Karcher pressure washers and Porsche 997 Turbos.
3084	I am a sportive guy mostly i run but i am also starting to learn parkour and free-run.
3085	I am convinced that the Economic Partnership Agreement with the EU will be an important driver for further trade diversification and regional integration in Southern Africa."
3086	I am convinced that the new technologies we need, and the green revolution which is happening, are an opportunity for the EU and a challenge, but not a threat.
3087	I am Dr Kuq Ya the messenger to the great oracle of Nigeria,Indian,Indonesia,Singapore,UK,USA,Uganda,japan,Spain,Germany and Paris.
3088	I am fed up with the lack of balance in the various forms of media within the UK, which constantly try to undermine Britain’s position vis a vis the EU.
3089	I am pleased to say that the Parliament has refused to be a rubber stamp and this tactic has failed.
3090	I am reposting a link to it here.
3091	I am sure that you have much to teach me in terms of how best to communicate this important message.
3092	I am sure you also agree that the company’s response to climate issues is independent from its long term strategy.
3093	I am the Chief Executive Officer of the Collections Trust, a role I have held for the past 8 years.
3094	I and all my collegues in OCEAN support modernization of customs and taxation procedures.
3095	I anticipate the LEUKEMIABARRIER project to generate novel basic knowledge, not excluding with clinical relevance, with the potential to open up several new fields for further studies.
3096	IAOPA asks that aircraft owners be allowed to select an alerting and locating option that is ¿appropriate for their type and area of operations,¿ including personal locator beacons.
3097	I asked EPSO: they told me we would get an answer by 19th November.
3098	I asked no one to testify on oath, simply to talk to me.
3099	I believe I could fit easily into your team.
3100	I believe that the IoT will lead to a rather large revolution, thus it will take time before the interests of research and industry re-align.
3101	“I believe the intention to grant to Pakistan increased market access through the immediate reduction of duties on key imports to the EU is an important step, even though I regret that the policy will need to be time-limited rather than becoming the rule.
3102	I can agree that 175mm pen might be annoying against some T8 and quite a few T9 but i've found it managable at least.
3103	I can cook a little and I have no problem doing some housework for you and tidying.
3104	I can hear you fine.
3105	I can SMELL it.
3106	I can’t afford a whole brand new satellite system and I’m sure that’s what they’ll come out here and tell me I need.
3107	I can talk with people when I work outside.
3108	ICEM communication specializes in Website design & development along with interactive services of portal design, content writing, CD presentation, Domain Hosting, SEO service provider, Software Development, Print Solutions and photography.
3109	ICTs empower businesses and helps them grow.
3110	Identifiant ou adresse courriel Vous êtes ici : Home Nouvelles sur EUPATI On the Expert Patients Pathway A huge success – doing the right thing!
3111	Identification of cooperation networks and international projects facilitating the partnership of compnies from the Park.
3112	Identifying and Selecting Participants The debates had an educational virtue helping people to understand what was really at stake for their institute; and they allowed the INRA's staff to appropriate the exercise as a whole.
3113	Identifying significant aspects For each of the prioritised aspects, describe the significant challenges for reaching sustainable development.
3114	• Identity Safe remembers, secures, and automatically enters your usernames and passwords for you, so they can’t be lost or stolen.
3115	I did that last time.
3116	I did this many times when leaving my country and going to another country the other side of the world.
3117	I'd invited him to Scotland to see the massive potential we have in the renewable energy industry - especially in the Highlands.
3118	I’d like to talk with the director, please.
3119	I'd love to teach Russian language, and I speak fluent Italian, and will be glad to study new language.
3120	I do have a solution for you guys if you want to play together.
3121	"I do not expect anything in particular from the European Union authorities.
3122	"I don’t even think provide move into in a timely manner it has been which result from tornados, mister ross stated.
3123	I don't have any budget insight..
3124	I don’t know if he had Guillain-Barre syndrome or whatever and he was paralyzed from the neck down on his back and he had for two years.
3125	I don't know if you heard about Rense and Alex Jones, but there's all these wars going on in the radio world and people are getting really nasty, you know.
3126	I don't trust them an inch, personally.
3127	I don't understand how a bad game is supposed to retain players better than a good game?
3128	I don't understand why it take so long.
3129	I don’t want ppl to xp someone telling “Oh hey he posted that screenshot / vid” and WG automaticaly take that as a proof and want to pay the 100k $ compensation.
3130	I don't want to program you.
3131	I doubt if I was in there in and out more than five minutes.
3132	IEA estimates that the use of liquid biofuels could grow reaching a level of 9% (11.7 EJ) of the total transport fuel (126 EJ) by 2030 and about 27% by 2050.
3133	IEEE ACM Joint Conference on Digital Libraries, 2nd International Workshop on Contextualized Attention Metadata, Vancouver, ceur proceedings Vol 266 Tomadaki, E. and Scott, P.J. (2007).
3134	IEEP has been involved in a range of projects to provide policy-makers with further guidance and support in integrating and responding to the values of nature in policy-making.
3135	I expressed the desire to continue the strong partnership that we have with Egypt, our determination to push forward in assisting its transition to the democratic future that people went to Tahrir Square in January 2011 to gain.
3136	If 80 per cent of the population supported it, they’d have to be heard and they’d be entitled to an answer.
3137	If a borrower receives a result of approve or accept, it means that the borrower qualifies for a mortgage.
3138	If accession negotiations are not closed by earlier next year however, the whole process may be slowed down due to the 2009 European elections and to the appointment of a new commission college in the autumn of 2009.
3139	If a company is proven to have their products produced using child labour, to be accountable for environmental disasters or to ignore fundamental democratic rights, customer loyalty is quickly jeopardized.
3140	If all this were done, the risk of renewed panic would subside, and Spain, Italy and the EU as a whole would be moved back from the brink of disaster.
3141	If an administrative decision is quashed by the Constitutional Court or by the Verwaltungsgerichtshof, administrative authorities must use all means available to establish a judicial situation corresponding to the Court legal opinion.
3142	If a party requests an oral hearing, he shall state why the conduct thereof is necessary and what evidence he would present in the oral hearing.
3143	If a user moves a device or a group containing a device outside of the security group of a DCA and the DCA performs a scan while the device is outside of the group, a new device will be created.
3144	If both positions are maintained as stipulated, then the promisor and the promisee are equal.
3145	If briquettes or chips would be selected for these applications there would be a need for major reconstructions of the furnaces and this would probably not be a realistic alternative.
3146	If countries want to relocate or resettle more persons, they can.
3147	I felt a block chubby porn down to see that. chubby teens Hell, okay.
3148	I felt my life was over and my kids thought they would never see their father again.
3149	If EU accepted these members, to gain access to sell their goods to their markets, then their workers should also have a right to partake in the production of these goods and earn a living.
3150	“If Europe leaves us in the crisis, we will flood it with migrants and it will be even worse for Berlin if in the wave of millions of economic migrants there will be some jihadists of the Islamic State too.”
3151	'If I'm honest I didn't want them to be there either - because they were disruptive to children who did want to learn.
3152	If, indeed, the domain name at issue has not been requested by a third party, then why did Complainant chose to initiate an ADR dispute, instead of filing a fresh application for the identical domain name?
3153	If I take for exemple "air transport".
3154	If it appears that food might have come from such an area, then they'll decide if it should be checked for radiation.
3155	If it fails, the second application received will then get a chance to demonstrate its prior right, and so on.
3156	If it wanted to have more flexibility, it would have to descend to laws or to regulations.
3157	If it was out of their control, believe you me, and they hadn’t done it, it would be a crisis.
3158	If Mayors Ruled the World.
3159	If Members fail to agree on the mini package of issues proposed for that meeting, the WTO will be discredited, leading countries will give up on the WTO as a forum for negotiations, and global value chains will roam the earth unimpeded.
3160	If necessary, adjust the reference point before manipulating the transformation.
3161	If no constraints are imposed on apart from the full-investment condition, then Tangency portfolio admits the olgitech representation where is vector of ones.
3162	If not, even ‘large’ languages will come under severe pressure.
3163	If not utilized, ‘recycled’ or ‘recovered’, for these other purposes, this surplus heat is simply lost to the atmosphere, rivers or lakes.
3164	If only I can ask him to send a picture of him actually having it.
3165	If only we had resorted to asking the people about the relationship they want with Europe in the past then it would not face a crisis of legitimacy today.
3166	I found it important to declare and reserve space for the various strings: And then form individual strings for the analogue readings which are then concatenated together.
3167	If Parliament backs the proposal, the new regulation will be approved and come into force.
3168	If passed, the agreement would aim to increase trade between the two powers.
3169	If policy coordination is intensified among the members of the eurozone, the other EU member states risk becoming marginalized.
3170	If policy-makers truly want to put the user at the heart of transport policy they must recognise reality and work to find solutions for the problems of mass motoring instead of compelling citizens to use other, less attractive, modes of transport.
3171	IFR 110 : Forest, Agricultural Resources, Bio-procedures and Food Ecosystems -Structuring of genetic information and of the dynamics of populations -Structuring element of the INRA in Lorraine -Methodological,..
3172	If request is denied, it may be resubmitted, following the elapse of 10 years, from the day request was denied.
3173	If selected you will required to prepare a brief presentation of your work for the day.
3174	If so, we have a great opportunity for you!
3175	If that is not the case, it would be useful to refer to chapter 5.3 Analysis of the constituency and mission statement of the previous guide "A step-by-step approach on how to set up a CSIRT".
3176	If that is the case, then the responses to the first question reveal the extent to which European citizens feel they are food-secure, even if they also want the EU to be more self-sufficient in major foodstuffs.
3177	If the door is unbalanced it should be quickly repaired.
3178	If the ECB set up the rules and the Cypriot banks operated under these rules, the ECB should be responsible for the fallout.
3179	If the English voters wake up and throw Cameron out of office maybe they can turn their economy around.
3180	If the euro ends up collapsing — and the European Union with it – Germany will clearly be much worse of.
3181	If the euro would have already been implemented, the ECB would have ensured Parex liquidity and the crisis would have been less harsh for Latvia.
3182	If the fibres are later recycled into new products, the carbon is locked in for even longer.
3183	If the Greek prime minister was serious about people’s opinions on the bail-outs he could have held this referendum back in May.
3184	If there are any recordings of that meeting and the booker has opened the edit of that meeting to everyone you can go the edit page.
3185	If there are unexpected problems, the Tournament Code is allowed to not be used.
3186	If these areas survive any future onslaught by the Islamic State, Qamishli’s size and geographical location will raise the fear in Ankara, Damascus, and Baghdad of a potential independent Kurdish entity.
3187	If these fields are not filled in with appropriate information, you will not be able to submit your application.
3188	If these remedies don’t work, then the solution may not be so easy.
3189	If the technology solution was readily apparent, the company publicizing its need to the world would likely not have gone to the effort and expense to list it on the technology marketplaces such as Innocentive.com or Yet2.com.
3190	If the total number of tasks are not evenly divisible by the blocking factor, the remainder of tasks are allocated to a single node.
3191	If the UK would fail to agree to the new compromise, it might undermine efforts to fight climate change and reach a Doha trade deal.
3192	If the unfortunate set of circumstances do happen, how would Europe react.
3193	If they are reading more difficult books for their required reading for school they can read easier books on their own time before they go stepp bed.
3194	If they came along at the beginning and says, you’ve GOT to take this computer, it’s mandatory, we would all be VERY suspicious.
3195	If they continue with their ‘new’ habits they will save 75,000 kg CO2 emissions per year.
3196	If they don’t..
3197	If they’re lucky, those who are caught are investigated and jailed.
3198	If they’ve been promoted it’s a good sign.
3199	If they want something on the shelves, it will get on the shelves.
3200	If they weren’t, they would fish on non-icy waters, but with poor results.
3201	If this is giving you a headache, take an ASPIRIN!).
3202	If this UK libdem oops I mean independent candidate gets the nod, does that mean that the EU will escalate its warmongering efforts on behalf of US and BoE mafia capitalism?
3203	I fully expect that some of the evangelists for one or other approach will consider my view biased but this is fair, as I consider their views biased too.
3204	If used to replace an older non-condensing unit, those gains can readily be twice as high.
3205	If we have more time to develop criteria and time to make market surveys we might find new solutions.
3206	If we have to accept a degree of bureaucracy together with peace, we may grumble, but it is a deal which should not be refused.”
3207	If we look back in history, all standardisation effort basically boils down to human-to-human interaction.
3208	If yes, please let us know!
3209	If you apply for other profiles, there, they usually require that to be relevant to the exams.
3210	If you are an agricultural producer in Canada you will also want to find crops that can be marketed for several potential commercial and agricultural applications.
3211	If you are happy with the summary information, click the "Install" button.
3212	If you are interested in sharing this colorful booklet with your younger (or older) beloved ones, you can order it from Energie-Cités in English or French, with the help of the online order form.
3213	If you are interested, just send us an email or insert your comment below with your full name, nationality and contact (phone/mail) by Sunday, May 6. The winner will be selected by a draw and contacted on Monday.
3214	If you are participating in EGI CF, please drop by.
3215	If you are planning an.
3216	"If you compare that with the EU, it is different," he added.
3217	If you do not agree to all these ToU, you should not use this website.
3218	If you do not have Adobe Reader installed on your computer you can download it from the Adobe site.
3219	If you don't know anything how can you think, how can you even question if you don't know anything?
3220	If you go into the Council on Foreign Relations’ own writings you’ll find that that is the agenda.
3221	If you have any further questions, please feel free to U heeft geen toestemming gegeven voor het plaatsen van cookies.
3222	If you have any questions, feedback or comments related to regional EGEA matters, please contact us!
3223	If you have any questions, please contact londonoffice@democraticunion.eu. Sir Tony Brenton is a former British diplomat who, amongst many other placements throughout his career, served as the United Kingdom’s ambassador to Russia from 2004-2008.
3224	If you have a story you know or can link to one (in any language) please let us know so we can add it to the page.
3225	If you have created shared endpoints, please give the access manager role a try and let us know if you have any questions or want to request other new features.
3226	If you have information about forthcoming events in one of the EaP countries please share it with us!
3227	If you have suggestions or recommendations for improvements to the site, please don't hesitate to contact the panel officers listed below.
3228	If you liked Mall Cop, you may also enjoy: Collect pimp coins around the track and enhance your ri..
3229	If you liked Release The Pokemon, you may also enjoy: You should find the hidden objects within the time limit t..
3230	If you look at the benefits of alternative health care to prescription drugs, you just have to decide if it is a sensible choice for you.
3231	If you need any garage door repair services call at 800-874-3667, Fax: 914-964-0964 or Visit:.
3232	If you need to visit a specialist, your GP will arrange for this; the financial arrangements are the same as in the case of treatment by your GP.
3233	If you notice, most politicians now are generally in and out as CEOs of corporations, and then back into politics.
3234	If you participate, your idea could be included in the Citizen’s Briefing Book to be delivered to President Obama.”
3235	If you put anything like this in the hands of governments, that has political agendas, and it has an economic agenda as well, you can’t do it.
3236	If your business is conducted over the internet, then this is a good choice.
3237	If you’re aroused but publish be not positive if she is, kiss her and discover.
3238	If you're not with us, you're with the terrorists.
3239	If you specify a classifier, this option will be ignored.
3240	If you’ve been injured in Sarasota, we would recommend you contact a professional and aggressive personal injury lawyer for your case.
3241	If you want the problems in the EZ to disappear in the form they do now you would have the countries go back to their own currency.
3242	If you want to cite papers from within your text you can use the cite shortcode.
3243	If you want to learn about this module, go to the detailed descprition of module 2 in this training pack.
3244	If you want to revamp your bathroom space in a unique style, then go for the best bathroom tiles available.
3245	If you want to subscribe (free of charge) to CCBE-INFO, please click here.
3246	I get a thing about vaccinations because vaccinations, I know, can really affect people afterwards.
3247	I got a lot of information about cultures and customs.
3248	I got this form.
3249	I graduated in political science, philosophy and german literature at Greifswald University, Germany (2002).
3250	I guess this is a new handyman, with his new tools.) After the initial discussion at the Ryan Family Auditorium, the class were told that a couple were going to demonstrate the use of a sex toy Which they did, and so on.
3251	I guess when my husband and I have children perhaps they’ll be lucky enough to have both Santa and Ježíšek!
3252	“I had a difficult experience but very rich at the same time.
3253	I had printed out a thing.
3254	I had the banana split crepe which somehow put a French twist on my childhood memories.
3255	I had to learn that people do not criticise each other or show feelings of rage, because it is simply foolish for them.
3256	I have a bad cold so I'm only going to ask you one question and then I'll take your answer off the air.
3257	I have a problem.
3258	I have a solid understanding of policies on biofuels, including key sustainability aspects like indirect land use.
3259	I have a thought.
3260	I have been following the careers of my peers from my Erasmus Mundus course and friends from EMA, and I am extremely impressed and in- spired with all that they have done and ac- complished.
3261	I have been following with increasing alarm the rapidly deteriorating humanitarian situation in recent weeks in north-west CAR.
3262	I have been previously trying to find something like this for a little bit now.
3263	I have been using the Copernicus EU-DEM product a few months now but only realised recently (when I wanted to automate some processing) that the European Grid Coordinate System (EGCS) naming used for the EU-DEM tiles is..
3264	I have experience in most facets of the software development cycle: from vision, project approach, team selection, to designing, developing and testing software.
3265	I have heard that even the German chancellery has weighed the option of taking GMO off the table before the very start.
3266	“I have indicated to my UDiTE colleagues who elected me as President that there is a Welsh saying: “A fo ben bud bont”, that is to be a leader you must also be a bridge.
3267	I have searched many websites to find my desired study programme, but I got details about my field of interest on StudyPortals, as they have all the information to decide which institute would be beneficial and economical.
3268	I have to be fair that Mr Tusk is a servant of the council and have to reflect the decisions of the leaders.
3269	I hope that you are enjoying your summer – we have had a record breaking summer here in Helsinki, and it's not over yet!
3270	I hope the leadership of North Korea will understand the signs of the time.
3271	I hope the US will engage fully with us in the UN reform process and continue to intensively coordinate with its European partners.
3272	I hope we get rid of them really soon.
3273	II.1)Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority: Provision of managed print services.
3274	IIIA - CSIC / SpaRCIM, Campus Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, Spain E-mail: This email address is being protected from spambots.
3275	I just tell you the straight hard facts.
3276	I just wanted to mention to your Canadian listeners that you and I will be starting up a 9/11 truth movement in Halifax.
3277	I kept it, I played it on the air because the Americans had never even heard this was even happening and their President was signing this into law.
3278	I knew I couldn’t be a hippie because I had to take a shower every day, you know?
3279	I know and I'm agreeing, but it seems like such a high number compared to fines for other, arguably more severe, crimes..
3280	I know it from my own experience in Poland, which overthrew its autocratic regime 22 years ago.
3281	I know that he travelled through Hull in England on his way back to Limerick as he sent a postcard from there.
3282	I know what's coming down but I presume it will spread elsewhere too.
3283	I. Kotenko, A. Shorov, A. Chechulin, E. Novikova (SPIIRAS) Conference: 6th International Workshop on Information Fusion and Geographic Information Systems: Environmental and Urban Challenges (IF&GIS' 2013).
3284	Il Cavaliere has always succeeded to feed this scepticism and literally hostility.
3285	Ilias Trou on October 29, 2011 at 02:04 said: lastgreek on October 29, 2011 at 17:22 said: Keep in mind that Greece has the highest number of injured/ handicap people in Europe due to road accidents If only they obeyed the speed limits.
3286	I like the way they write it in these handouts, this is a handout obviously by one of the PR companies for the OECD.
3287	I lived through a lot of it and watched it all happening.
3288	I'll be back after the messages.
3289	“Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing remains a major threat to vulnerable fish stocks, accounting for up to one-third of global catches.
3290	I’ll put that one up for you as well and you can have a look through.
3291	I’ll put that up for you to peruse, just to let you know what’s happening.
3292	I’ll put this article up and you can read it for yourselves.
3293	I’ll read this after this break.
3294	I'll spell that all out so there's no confusion here.
3295	I’ll trade you, Centre For European Reform The Centre for European Reform is a think-tank devoted to making the European Union work better and strengthening its role in the world.
3296	I love the flu thing.
3297	I love these soviet systems; it’s just amazing, with their arrogance.
3298	I love to visit museums and galleries and appreciate the work of many artists.
3299	IMAGE CREDITS: Minecraft – Screenshot by Philip Roeland Can video games help children learn? 45 comments Post a commentComment James McManama May 20th, 2015 Civilization II taught me everything I know about history.
3300	Images are an incredibly strong tool draw attention to problems, make them public, and eventually, through criticism and discussion, allow participation.
3301	Image used by permission.
3302	Imagine Russia saying US has too much control in the Gulf of Mexico.
3303	I'm Alan Watt, with my list of grievances 100 miles long and this is Cutting Through the Matrix.
3304	I'm a regular caller of RBN.
3305	“I’m confused, because I didn’t bring a funeral wreath with me.”
3306	I mean, it’s going somewhere but where is it going?
3307	I mean, there’s a lot of baloney about DNA.
3308	I mean, those type of slave labor conditions, and they bring you inside the factory, are unimaginable in this country, at this point.
3309	I mean, you understand you’re living in a predatory society, with winners and losers, but they don’t want you to know that, you understand.
3310	"IMF poised to print billions of dollars in 'global quantitative easing' " by Edmund Conway (telegraph.
3311	I'm glad you're here.
3312	I’m going to get an update from library staff after their current phase of outreach work, so watch this space!
3313	I'm going to write about some of them here.
3314	IMI2 can serve as a valuable tool to test such new ideas in a safe environment, and address questions that patients, doctors, payers and regulators may have.
3315	I’m impressed by your achievements in Greece, and think you would be a President that could restore the dignity and relevance of the European Commission.
3316	“I’m less apt to throw away a song that might be a little weird nowadays.
3317	Immediately after addition of NaOH to beer, it turns to an ugly cloudy brown with a disgusting smell.
3318	Immigration legislation must not allow discrimination and social dumping.
3319	I’m not going to lie, Alan, I fell in there and I’m just trying to find my way out.
3320	Impact is necessary for private information to be reflected in prices, but by the same token, random fluctuations in order flow necessarily contribute to the volatility of markets.
3321	Implementation of Implementations in developed countries show that ITS technologies have a big potential in alleviating all of these problems.
3322	Implementation of the JAP started already during the project duration, and collaboration continues beyond the project end date in January 2013.
3323	Implemented on several randomly generated porous media domains, the proposed method provides 13–120 times the efficiency compared to Monte Carlo methods.
3324	Important: Do not forget to bring along your personal ID card or your passport.
3325	Important provisions in this area are foreseen in the future CSD Regulation.
3326	Importers must check whether manufacturers have carried out conformity assessment of products correctly and if necessary must carry out random tests themselves.
3327	Imprisonment of the people because of their ideas is a breach of fundamental human rights.
3328	Improved provision of guidance on green jobs and forecasting of skill needs are needed to avert bottlenecks and facilitate VET responses.
3329	Improving mental health care in Afghanistan should not only benefit a large number of directly affected people and their families and contribute to peace building and security.
3330	“Improving water efficiency in light of increasing scarcity will require innovative solutions, as will emerging pollutants, reducing leakage and water reuse.
3331	I’m sure they had many names before they called themselves the Cecil Rhodes group and the Milner Group as well, that became the Royal Institute of Affairs, with the goal of using a British Empire system as the embryonic egg to shape the world.
3332	I must admit it.
3333	I’m very suspicious about “voluntary” measures.
3334	In 1944 by the order of Stalin, Server Aliev’s family as well as their neighbors and around 200,000 other Tatars were deported in cattle wagons to Soviet Asian republics.
3335	In 1946 he was appointed proctor of the great Vivekananda Students' Home in Madras, where he remained till 1954.
3336	In 1981, she received her master's in Computer Science at California State University Fullerton.
3337	In 1989 this percentage fell to 30% and at the beginning of this century this percentage was 23% (Sanz, 2005).
3338	In 1992, Eddy co-founded and became a board member of the Mofet Israel Technology Fund, one of Israel's first venture capital firms.
3339	In 1992, soon after meeting and auditioning for Prince, she was signed to his Paisley Park Records label.
3340	In 1994 Professor Gotzen worked as an expert at the Belgian Parliament to review the Belgian Copyright Bill.
3341	In 1994, she was selected for an EU-funded Ph.
3342	In 1998 it presented first plays for adult audience.
3343	In 1999, Felix Miller and I started a platform for unsigned bands to upload their music.
3344	In 2000, Carola Conle and her team of colleagues published a study on how they had tried, together with their students, to deal with the topic of intercultural communication.
3345	In 2000, she obtained the degree of Doctor in Applied Biological Sciences at the same university on high hydrostatic pressure treatment of cheese.
3346	In 2002 the starting point was the trichotomy civil law, criminal law and administrative law, and the smallest part of the budget was earmarked for administrative law.
3347	In 2002, when an epidemic took hold in Burkina Faso, the strain affected more than 13,000 people and killed at least 1,500.
3348	In 2004, at the British Press Awards, Clarkson struck the journalist Piers Morgan and had to be restrained by security.
3349	In 2004, the Federal Office for Spatial Planning (ARE) developed a concept and methodological foundation for this process on the national level (ARE, 2004).
3350	In 2009, his book Social Brains won the 63rd Mainichi Publication and Culture Award in the natural science category.
3351	In 2009 however, a series of pay scandals and the economic crisis more generally began to change public perception of executive remuneration, and developed high political saliency.
3352	In 2009, Newcastle City Council began one of the first EV infrastructure pilots in Europe as a result of being awarded funding to install charging posts in the city; and have committed to delivering 40 infrastructure installations in 2009/10.
3353	In 2010 he started ownCloud project and is leading the community project since then.
3354	In 2011, the emphasis will be on the fi­nalisation of guidance updates that were initiated in 2010, the guidance on Safety Data Sheets being the most important as it is helpful for many companies and SMEs in particular.
3355	In 2011, the share of R&D personnel constituted 1.51% of the total labour force in head count (165% in EU-28 in 2011) (data source Eurostat, December 2013).
3356	In 2012 participants from all over Europe worked together in four Visions workshops, to develop visions on land use from the perspective of their sector.
3357	In 2012, when browsing on the WoWS forum, I thought “why not try?” and submitted an application to Lesta studio – and with that, I joined the game development team.
3358	In 2013, as expert evaluator for FP7 ICT projects, Djordje worked with the EU Commission.
3359	In 2013, a total of 3 706 seizures of cannabis plants were reported, which is less than reported in 2009–11, but slightly more than in 2012.
3360	In 2013 our engagement with Albania has continued with determination on both sides.
3361	In 2014 the Agency will present the results of its Survey on gender-based violence against women – research that was requested by the Spanish Presidency of the Council in 2010.
3362	In 2015 we will also seek to agree a new agenda for development for the coming years.
3363	In 4 coun- tries, the RWAs reduction has been partially offset by a reduction of capital.
3364	In a context of crisis where youth employment has become a top priority for the European Union, the project seeks to lobby for the recognition of voluntary work and non-formal education as work experience.
3365	In addition, a large quantity of electronic devices was seized, including computers, mobile phones and SIM cards.
3366	In addition, a session is planned on infrastructures for experimentation, such as smart city environments, research infrastructures, or the FIRE (Future Internet Research and Experimentation) infrastructure.
3367	In addition, available methods and tools for the development of SEAPs are not always well-adapted to rural communities.
3368	In addition, civil society representatives attended the meeting and participated in the two-hour session.
3369	In addition, district heating presumably will be used more frequently in the future for climate control in non-residential buildings.
3370	In addition, during weekdays and weekends, wireless Internet use has a positive association with offline time spent with friends and acquaintances.
3371	In addition, e-Health was made one of the 10 priorities of the e-Europe 2005 action plan, which is carried on into the i2010 initiative.
3372	In addition, entrepreneurial capabilities are enhanced and trained through master classes on specific business aspects as market research, venturing, etc.
3373	In addition, Erdogan became the new President of Turkey in August, further consolidating its grip on power.
3374	In addition, Inogate supports small-scale investments in interstate infrastructure.
3375	In addition, it advises that the disclosure requirements for preferential capital treatment currently foreseen in the CRR should be further clarified through the development of binding technical standards.
3376	In addition it will reduce the weight of the propulsion system as a whole (engine including nacelle without pylon) Most importantly, LEMCOTEC addresses the particular challenge in delivering these benefits simultaneously!
3377	In addition I would like to highlight the New Silk Road initiative as it offers a vision for promising economic cooperation, from which Afghanistan and its neighbours could benefit greatly.
3378	In addition, Merck Serono’s new unit dedicated to biosimilars, a novel activity crucial for the future, will also be based in the Canton of Vaud.
3379	In addition, our Action Plan details how CEER intends to work to meet our commitments to customers.
3380	In addition secret keys generated with QKD can be used for ITS message authentication.
3381	In addition, several modelling studies have demonstrated significant relationships between the AMOC and large-scale patterns of North Atlantic sea-surface temperatures (SSTs).
3382	In addition strategies were discussed and modern tools were assessed in order to disseminate the results of the project in the most efficient way.
3383	In addition, the conference aims to bring practitioners from regional parliaments and policy-makers and experts together with a view to enhance good practices in information exchange at EU level.
3384	In addition, the Erie has enough space on the upper deck to accommodate torpedo tubes (in the alternative history of course).
3385	In addition, the events related to the Euromaidan had a destabilising effect on the national political scene.
3386	In addition, the Federal Government has set up the “Initiative for Excellence” in order to build up critical mass at the very high end of excellence.
3387	In addition, the income received through this tax could be used for improvement of local environment.
3388	In addition, the members of the group, under the leadership of the presidency, elaborate EU statements on drug-related aspects to be presented at international fora, such as the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND).
3389	In addition, the new ECTS User’s Guide was officially adopted.
3390	In addition, the product offers stable performance at temperatures of up to 80 °C.
3391	In addition, there are currently about ten PhD students involved in solar physics research, all third-party funded through national and international research projects.
3392	In addition, there was a dialogue with local participants and citizens in the municipality of Rethem, which also led to consider a feasibility study.
3393	In addition, the user can dynamically increase the amount of computational resources dedicated to execute the experiment and the platform will scale itself accordingly to the new size of the experiment.
3394	In addition, this ability no black ops 2 steelbook edition has a fixed duration, but will go on cooldown for 10 seconds after being canceled (similar to Stealth).
3395	In addition, this agreement is a first when it comes to promoting 'green growth' and has been especially designed to meet the EU's "2020 strategy" for a competitive economy.
3396	In addition, this issue is under current bilateral discussions in other trade fora like the EU-India TBT-SPS Committee.
3397	In addition to a new entrance, cash from Lancashire County Council and the Heritage Lottery Fund paid for eight new interactive collections covering Roman times, the Iron Age and Edwardian England.
3398	In addition to a shared strategy and agenda, Europe needs to cross the chasm between research and market by investing and developing those elements that ease the conversion of scientific findings into useful products or services for society.
3399	In addition to describing what has been achieved so far, it is worth noting that the EC highlights the need to further investment in infrastructure including smart grids.
3400	In addition to FREE E-books, webinars and e-learning materials to help you excel, if at any point you have a question or need additional help to understand the EPSO processes, please do not hesitate to contact us.
3401	In addition to presenting the results of the user evaluation, the report also includes technical evaluation of the system, the content processing and enrichment, and the user interface design.
3402	In addition to quality assurance in the fields of safety and labour conditions, also environmental aspects are secured through this quality mark.
3403	In addition, Toshiba will also show its Z series range of laptops consisting of the Portégé Z30t, Tecra Z40 and Tecra Z50 with Full HD displays to compliment the mobility and power.
3404	In addition to their role in the FLEGT dialogue, CSOs also receive support to implement a wide range of projects linked to the implementation of the FLEGT VPA.
3405	In addition to the rights information provided in the 'ore:Aggregation' class, CARARE provides rights information specific to these digital resources.
3406	In addition to the training activities, the FP promoted career development, ideally within the network of partners and abroad to preserve excellence in the research environment.
3407	In addition to this, it is important that builders and trades- men are better at integrating thoughts on energy efficiency in building and renovation processes.
3408	In addition to this, the European Water Framework Directive describes a set of objectives addressing both water quality and water scarcity issues.
3409	In addition to this the Ukrainian government has encouraged the diversification of nuclear fuel resources in a new "nuclear code" submitted to Parliament, and has also approved (after many years) loading off (or do you mean: the loading of?
3410	In addition, whenever there is a failure our federation of data stores loses its consistency in dealing with multiple problems with our customers.
3411	In a European Union that is more integrated and less factious than today.
3412	In a fourth article, Johannes Meier and Arne Mogren from the European Climate Foundation argued that well-functioning markets are also essential for decarbonisation.
3413	In a free market, the fall in asset prices can be so large that the sale of assets cannot realize the funds needed to fulfill commitments.
3414	In Agenda 21 from the United Nations it says there will be no private homes eventually.
3415	In all, 15 publications in peer-reviewed journals have appeared or are in press, another 13 manuscripts have been submitted for publication.
3416	In all cases, we conducted thorough experiments on real-world videos from a wide array of sources: movies, TV archives, and amateur and internet videos (YouTube).
3417	In all of the USE Master programmes, a certain level of prior knowledge is required at the level of the USE Bachelor course Statistics (see website for more information).
3418	In all other areas of spending, expenditures are rather limited and below the EU averages.
3419	In all these cases, we applied the same criteria that we adopt to assess mergers involving companies controlled by EU countries.
3420	“In an age when ‘big data’ is shaping our every move, how come an industry that takes so much profit can’t keep pace with technology and use it to actually deliver a service worth the money they take in commission?”
3421	In analysing how to best co-ordinate its efforts in areas such as training, equipment, and exercises, the EU will take into consideration key areas of the Brahimi report.
3422	In an ever more competitive world economy, success is increasingly being determined by the ability of businesses and societies to be innovative.
3423	In an ideal world, countries would negotiate with the aim of creating economic efficiency – boosting import gains as much as export gains.
3424	In an increasingly global higher education market, they attract the very best academics and students from around the world, as well as investment from multinational, research intensive businesses.
3425	In a nutshell, the process of decentralization of powers preserves multiple identities.
3426	In any case, it is possible to envisage a joint solution based on creation of a “European Solidarity Mechanism”, financed by the tax on financial transactions, and empowerment of the Commission to reject a national budget.
3427	In a previous round of funding, energy efficiency programs were deemed ineffective.
3428	In April 2010 the Norwegian Ministry for Government Administration held “Nettskap 2.0”.
3429	In April, Berners-Lee engaged similarly with the US government offering to help them join the "rapidly growing Linked Open Data cloud, to which US recovery data will be a welcome addition."
3430	In a question-and-answer format posted to the Abu Dhabi bourse, the company revealed that all assets were sold at the cost of construction “plus margin”.
3431	In a recent interview on German television, Edward Snowden expressed how he wondered who the US government was representing in the name of national security.
3432	In a related online campaign, BIVV-IBSR launched a viral video where members of the public invited speeding motorists to their own fake ‘funeral’.
3433	In a response to Pappa, Professor Ruth Rubio Marin (EUI) finished the day with a reflective intervention about her own struggles with glass ceilings.
3434	In August 2010, the Government of Serbia adopted a new Regulation according to which lawyers are exempted from the obligation to record their income through fiscal cash registers.
3435	In August 2011 Ed Daniel, one of the original team, was hired by Rik Wierenga in Oulu, to work mainly on xtalPiMS, the extension for crystallogenesis, including exchange of data with synchrotrons.
3436	In autumn, large flocks of Citril often perch on fences.
3437	In Bonitasoft a healthcare process will be implemented.
3438	In both cases a circle out of optimization, evaluation and visualization has to be work through.
3439	In both cases, we find that a subset of 10 % of nodes is enough to reconstruct the main features of the network along with its resilience with an error of 5%.
3440	In both cities, project partners had the opportunity to identify and discuss examples of good practice and five reports describing these, and their potential for transfer across regions, have been produced.
3441	In Brazil, just in time for a swimming season, the brand released a one-of-a-kind print advertising that allows moms and dads to create a trackable bracelet out of it.
3442	In British Columbia the Petroleum and Natural Gas Act (P&NG Act) provides the legal basis for the tenuring of underground storage reservoirs.
3443	In case of failure of the master, a slave is elected to be the new master and a new slave is added.
3444	In case of licensing, is it mandatory to grant the exclusivity to the licensee?
3445	In case of questions or concerns related to the registration please contact us via e-mail rejestracja@lublin.
3446	In cases of disagreement between the beneficiary and the first level controller, the first level controller will have the deciding word.
3447	In charge globally Nokia business risk and crisis management.
3448	In CityChlor we will test the possibility to use this as a remediation tool.
3449	In close collaboration with national authorities and in open consultation with its stakeholders, EFSA provides independent scientific advice and clear communication on existing and emerging risks.
3450	Included in this category, for example, are Web Analytics, where the data gathered is limited to use of the website by the user and the number of accesses to the website, in order to manage the performance and structure of the website.
3451	Includes a cover note from Callaghan, 1987, about the history of this material.
3452	Includes all of the following: Intel® In-Vehicle Solutions product overview Solutions for what's next in advanced automotive technologies > Access technical and sales assistance, register for an intel EDC account, or manage your account.
3453	Includes many practical utilities to support you in accessing the internet.
3454	Inclusion of fish in meals is preferred over pork and beef since it consists of only less amount of fat.
3455	In combination with the Maritime Situational Picture, this picture could be used by operational maritime authorities in their counter-piracy tasks.
3456	Income that is concentrated in the top income levels, leads to lower growth and stagnating growth, and speculation bubbles.
3457	In comparison, the same journey by steam train in 1935 took just 27 hours.
3458	In comparison to two EFITA surveys collated during two conferences (1999 Bonn, 2001 Montpellier) the current study among farmers shows distinctively deviating results.
3459	In conjunction with this working-group, your mission to Brazil scheduled for the beginning of October would be a great opportunity to enhance the cooperation and to coordinate joint activities.
3460	In consequence, the EU market for ship supply is not common, but dispersed.
3461	In consideration of the detailed review of US social support system, the brief comparison of US social security system and social security system of Lithuania is presented.
3462	In contrast, in a wireless network, signal transmissions are intrinsi…In a wireline network, nodes form links with only those nodes they are wired to, and the links do not interfere with one another.
3463	In contrast, most research with adolescents distinguishes several different cyber-identities, which allows for a much deeper understanding of the behaviour.
3464	In contrast, non-gender scholars have generally been slow to respond to these developments, despite the potential for quotas to shape a variety of political dynamics—and thus to illuminate trends in relation to many key debates in comparative politics.
3465	In contrast, the process was to remodel it perfect advantageous commercial enterprise which commonly play competitively with southern western euro moreover core east labor percentage payments.
3466	In contrast with previous years, in 2013 a considerably higher amount of the ERDF allocation has to be spent to fully utilise the funds available for this programming period and this can only be achieved by ensuring the smooth implementation of projects.
3467	In contrast with the ethical impact of law, the taste on a higher plane cannot be obligatory, because we want and must include everyone.
3468	Increase your productivity in 5 minutes.
3469	Increasingly important considerations for panels and other public committees are accountability and transparency.
3470	Increasingly, netbook manufacturers are turning to the somewhat faster, dual-core Atom N570.
3471	Increasing our collaboration with the scientific community allows us to develop services that tie in closely with the requirements of our customers.
3472	Increasing the success rate of entrepreneurs will have significant economic and societal value.
3473	In December 2013 an EESC delegation led by its president, Henri Malosse, travelled to Kyiv to meet Ukrainians protesting against the postponement of the signature of the Association Agreement with the European Union and to listen to their expectations.
3474	In December 2013, the Strategic Council for RÅ²D and Innovation approved 20 smart specialisation priorities.
3475	Indeed, findings revealed that ethnicity was only one factor in the interplay of categories, such as gender, socio-economic status, or sexual orientation, which can influence the likelihood of violence incidents occuring in schools.
3476	Indeed, from the very next lines, and after a series of passages, he in fact states that what individuals are “therefore coincides with their production, both with what they produce and with how they produce.
3477	Indeed, Marx was a master tragedian who saw capitalism as an unfolding drama in which humanity has a chance to awake from a nightmare that is its own doing.
3478	Indeed, the bores or liners are typically drilled or turned before honing.
3479	Indeed, the future is looking bright for healthcare.
3480	Indeed, the head writer followed a series of parameters determined both by the original format and by the specific requirements of adapting it for domestic consumption.
3481	Indeed the issue you raised potentially makes Yiannis proposal incomplete without an independent and proper EIB fund allocating mechanism.
3482	Indeed, the iTesla project will provide a public internal data model with public interfaces and will support the main standards for power system data exchanges (such as PSS/E, Eurostag or CIM formats).
3483	Indeed, the meeting is scheduled to have only two working days, making clear that this is not a negotiating meeting per se.
3484	Indeed, the project final event is scheduled early 2015 following field trials and assessment of the SNIFFER devices.
3485	Indeed, this has already led to a significant shift in the age structure in practically all European countries.
3486	Indeed, with the exception of the two documents to which access was refused for duly justified reasons, the Commission granted access to all the documents the complainant asked for.
3487	Independent jeweler specializing in quality colored gemstones set in unique sterling silver and gold designs.
3488	Indes, a design agency from The Netherlands, leaded a group of fifteen people (seven SMEs were represented) and explained the added value of industrial design for medical products.
3489	Indiana Jones Add fun Indiana Jones stickers to your images.
3490	Indian nationalists took up this theme in numbers during the nineteenth century and it has quietly been incorporated into both the populist and subaltern-studies streams in the subcontinent.
3491	Indirect Target Groups: Transport and logistics employees, especially Warehouse Managers and Freight Handlers, company owners and top management, Human Resources managers as well as Training officers.
3492	In discussions on the Gas Target Model no clear “yes or no” – at least for NRAs within GRI NW – came forward on the question whether implicit allocation should be introduced in the gas market.
3493	Individual differences have an important outcome in susceptibility to diseases and..
3494	Individual Personal Plans are a tool used to identify a person’s goals and needs for their future.
3495	Individual regal backdrop lessons proceeds to the st.
3496	Individuals a provide feedback may perhaps be objectionable and it could be bad, click on the banner who is in the top suitable nearby the pandora charms sale times you float through a remark.
3497	Individual supervision from university faculty and/or one of Europe’s leading research institutes for area and comparative area studies.
3498	In doing so, it benefitted from its access to top militaries and key decision-makers who frequently visited the EP and its committees.
3499	Indoor jogger configuration was close to high-end device configuration: slightly modified treadmill, Center for Internet Excellence cave display system (no stereoscopic 3D), headset for audio, one Kinect for capturing body movements and a PC.
3500	In DYNAMIX he will be contributing with his experience to ensure the relevance of the project for policy makers as well as the overall scientific quality.
3501	In earlier years, the annual expansion rate was around 50-60 megawatts (MW).
3502	In early 2002 an empirical study in Germany has been conducted to find out the reasons for this development.
3503	In either case, as the option holder, you also have the right to sell the option to another buyer during its term or to let it expire worthless.
3504	In essence, the Commission's approach, as endorsed by the General Court, is that issuers should provide services to merchants free of charge, and then either absorb the costs of these services or pass them onto cardholders.
3505	In Europe, this shift is reflected in the Flood risk directive of October 2007 (see next question).
3506	I never accepted the debt relative to GDP approach.
3507	I never paint directly on canvas without sketches.
3508	"In every member state, there are people who believe their country can survive alone in the globalised world.
3509	In extreme cases, such as Kodak’s denial of the rise of digital photography, it can spell the demise of the organisation.
3510	In fact, experts pre- dict a savings potential of up to 20 percent.
3511	In fact, he even got the idea from George Bernard Shaw.
3512	In fact, if Baroness Ashton and Mr.
3513	In fact that was their symbol for a long time, in theosophy was the swastika, and below it was what people now think of as the Star of David.
3514	In fact, the financial value of the British manufacturing industry has increased throughout the past decades and its output stands out as one of the highest in global industries.
3515	In fact, the secret method is practicing day and night: I bought an Unlimited package, and did at least one full test with 50 verbal and numerical reasoning questions every second day.
3516	In fact, we have to rethink if we even NEED it.
3517	In fact you don't know if the webbrowser understands any of the two objects.
3518	In February 2009 the reporting sheet was presented to the EEA network (Eionet/NFP) and accepted as the basis for future water quantity report to EEA.
3519	Infertility is the most rising problem they have in the western countries, that’s not by chance either because overpopulation was another big concern for them and then all the trade treaties would bind the world together under global governance.
3520	In Figure 2, the list of the most representative programming patterns for user interface implementation is supplied.
3521	Influenza activity continues to decline in Europe: ECDC weekly monitoring22 Mar 2013 In all reporting countries but one, influenza activity continued to decline or had already returned to baseline levels.
3522	In foreign policy, the picture is radically different.
3523	• Information about specific opportunities such as tenders, requests for cooperation or trade fairs.
3524	Information available in this website has been supplied by the National Intellectual Property Offices of the European countries.
3525	Information-based instruments As stated in 4.4.3 for Packaging waste.
3526	Information gathered during the interviews enables national measures against facilitation of illegal migration as well as return of illegal migrants.
3527	Information on innovation policy measures for each individual country ia available from the ERAWATCH country pages.
3528	Information that is easy to find and to use, in fact, the information that you need.
3529	Informed trader has private information about the fundamental value of the asset as well as the exogenous demand shock on the market.
3530	Infrastructure design that favours car use reduces walking and cycling, and high speeds increase risks of accidents and fatalities.
3531	In general the costs of the Challengers are supposed to be concentrated in RTD activities.
3532	In general, the main goal of the City Council is to achieve the integration of the services and technologies in the municipal urban transport and facilitate their use to the citizens.
3533	In general, the medicines are taken 30 to 60 minutes before sex.
3534	In general, the reactions to the survey show an impressive divide along gender lines, with women being clearly overrepresented (61,74%) as respondents, and furthermore showing a greater willingness to answer the open questions and leaving open comments.
3535	In general, the report highlights the need to diversify energy sources, suppliers and routes, whilst at the same time ensuring a fully functioning internal energy market that delivers secure, competitive and sustainable energy.
3536	In Geneva, the members negotiate for a new 10 year agreement on cooperation. 9th GEO European projects workshop To prevent automated spam submissions leave this field empty.
3537	In Germany in a break of 2/3 month its easy to find an employment for this period to get the financial basis for the next semester.
3538	In GEST the operations and service personnel have been recruited and trained by RATP training officers, who remained onsite with local teams for several months following the launch in order to ensure skills transfer.
3539	In GRAPNEL language the most fundamental unit is the process which manifests itself at two levels: Process Communication Level and Process Internal Level.
3540	In her keynote address HRVP Mogherini said: "Politics has its deep roots in the civil society and it is with the civil society that we build our collective responses to the many challenges we face.
3541	In his closing words, Geert Dancet re­minded that help, tools, documents, we­binars, translated news as well as indus­try associations´ support, are available for registrants.
3542	In his memoirs, Jean Monnet described how the city of Luxembourg was chosen as a provisional location.
3543	In his words, UKIP had “gone native inside Brussels” with its MEPs taking money and expenses from the EU, but he claimed: “they don’t do anything.”
3544	In honour of the USS Texas’s centenary, we thought we would share some photos of ship, chronicling its life and the evolution it underwent.
3545	Initially the Dutch CAA opposed this, but on April 10th it agreed to reopen the airspace to VFR traffic with transponders switched off.
3546	Initially, they were working without a website or a mobile application, merely using a group in the Russian social network Vkontakte.
3547	Initially – up to 2020 - the Belgian CPA will be operating a manual point of contact system to serve the national PRS user community which will initially be small.
3548	Initiatives like 'Online Art' have an important role to play in ensuring harmony between progress and innovation and the promotion of cultural diversity.
3549	Initiative: Zurich is seeking to take heavy traffic out of the city, and the opening in 2009 of the western bypass motorway has been a significant Water: The city ranks in joint fifth place for water, with Copenhagen.
3550	In its case the concept could be realised by having customers delivering packages.
3551	In its view, the combined registration-booking-testing system is candidate-friendly, as candidates are able to choose and book their test date themselves, instead of being allocated a date by EPSO.
3552	In Japan, Toshiba and Sumitomo have each launched rare earth joint ventures in Kazakhstan over the past year.
3553	Injecting drug users represented 2 530, including citizens of the Kyrgyz Republic, who numbered 2 394 (64.5 %).
3554	In July 2014, I was appointed member of the International Trade committee (INTA) after being a substitute member since September 2011.
3555	In mainly healthy adults, oseltamivir reduced the time to first alleviation of symptoms by 16.8 hours.
3556	In Malmö ECSS is going to demonstrate a commitment to SCSR and compliance.
3557	In many cases the enter cheat codes shadow the hedgehog function of the software itself is easier to comprehend than any real-world analog wth it.
3558	In many countries in Europe, the child under 18 year old cannot contract by himself except for some special matters.
3559	In March 2014, Andrei Klepach, Russia’s deputy economy minister, said that capital amounting to $70 billion would have left the country by the end of the first quarter.
3560	In March a congressional subcommittee approved the latest revision of the Global Online Freedom Act, first drafted in 2004.
3561	In March, Budapest hosted IAB Europe’s annual Training Days to gather and share best practices on Public Affairs and Education all over Europe.
3562	In May 1981, he was also the Elysee spokesperson, Strategic Affairs Advisor from 1988 to 1991 and Secretary General of the Elysee from 1991 to 1995.
3563	In mixed hypergraphs, two types of sets are distinguished, and vertex colourings are to be found where each set of the first type has two vertices of the same colour, while each set of the second type has two vertices of distinct colours.
3564	In most cases an on-line analysis would demand computational power normally associated by super-computers, which is certainly not affordable in an ordinary clinical environment.
3565	In most cases they are mediocre, easily digested books.
3566	In most countries concerts given by racist bands take place in secret, concealed as private events.
3567	In most templates HTML is compatible with Adobe GoLive, Macromedia Dreamweaver and Microsoft Frontpage.4.
3568	'In Myanmar, we have few risk management activities using this kind of very advanced technology like geo-informatics and remote sensing,' she said.
3569	In my experience with these forms, they tend to be either 1) so general as to be useless (i.e. grouping very different activities together under common headings) or 2) so overly detailed that they're not burdensome and consequently ignored.
3570	In my opinion, this ‘command’s’ very own existence would depend on the forming and global acceptance of an ‘Ethos’ dictating the empowerment of ‘Demos’ by the ‘internet’.
3571	In Nantes, surveys on the topic of public transportation indicated the need to enhance the overall image of bus travel in comparison to the tram.
3572	In noncomatose patients with HE, motor system abnormalities, such as hypertonia, hyper-reflexia, and a positive Babinski sign, can be observed.
3573	In November 2004, he hosted in Madrid a meeting with the directors of the Latin American State forensic institutes.
3574	In November 2007 she received the Master of Science Degree in Electronics Engineering from the Politecnico di Torino with a thesis entitled “Algoritmi e architetture per il progetto di ricevitori MIMO”.
3575	In November 2013, we published an article by solar pioneer Peter F. Varadi, “The future of the large German utilities: it’s already here“, in which the author predicted what would happen in Germany first of all.
3576	INNOWATER is a water innovation partnership aiming to improve the market access of innovative water technologies.
3577	In old English stiward, stigweard means “house guardian,” from stig “hall, pen” + weard “guard.”
3578	In order for the Governing Council to vote, there shall be a quorum of two-thirds of the members having a voting right.
3579	In order for us to process your notice of copyright infringement, it must be sent to the address below and must include the information specified below.
3580	In order ms flight simulator and quad core cpu you to be successful in high school you must become an madden nfl arcade cheats.
3581	In order to accomplish our objectives, we will apply different methodologies, such as nominal groups, delphi techniques, and focus groups.
3582	In order to attach a price to such an option, it is necessary to quantify the residual risk to the writer.
3583	In order to bridge the accounting of past natural hazards and possible future risks, a risk and/or vulnerability assessment is necessary.
3584	In order to change this, we need to drive forward a federation for an internet of test beds to develop an ecoystem of facilities and services based on openness (at the architecture level).
3585	In order to compensate for their foreign - exogenous origins, both Turanids and Slavists scripted themselves similar ethno-genesys stories, which are way inconsistant and incompatible with their actual, real-time, ethno-racial Identities.
3586	In order to continue cooperation with other EU fire and rescue service providers the experience exchange events will be organised.
3587	In order to correctly identify the cause of a distributional change it is necessary to use statistical models to account for sampling error and bias.
3588	In order to describe this historical process in depth, the main challenge of this methodology consists in comparing these ‘individual pieces’ of the mosaic with a broader scenario inferred from a variety of ‘secondary’ and intertextual sources.
3589	In order to ensure and enhance our international teaching and learning capabilities, Tallinn University collaborates with various institutes abroad, having bilateral cooperation agreements with 51 partner universities in 29 countries worldwide.
3590	In order to ensure policy relevant outcomes of the conference, academic contributions are expected to focus on topics the relevance of which is supported by empirical evidence.
3591	In order to evaluate ICT implementation it is important to take into account the number of ICT professionals and practitioners.
3592	In order to evaluate the prospects of LNG in German and European transport, erdgas mobil had organised a press conference themed “LNG – Ready for Germany” with support of manufacturer Iveco.
3593	In order to examine the White Paper in terms of social sus- tainability, it is best to look more closely at objectives (3) and (4).
3594	In order to explain, promote, and attract new contributotrs, we created a video to be viewed by stakeholders, who may be non-experts, in a new generation Internet.
3595	In order to facilitate the construction, alkane biosynthetic pathways are studied in detail and genes encoding key-enzymes are isolated from diverse organisms.
3596	In order to fulfill this view, the BonFIRE testbed will address the following requirements: Figure 1: High level overview of extended cloud scenario.
3597	In order to learn more about the MEP’s visit to EUMM you can tune in to the EUMM Radio Show next Wednesday or get the link through our official Facebook page.
3598	In order to meet these demands, Konica Minolta has developed the Auto Scan Spectrophotometer FD-9 for the graphic arts and printing fields.
3599	In order to oversee the rapidly-growing program, the principals established a non-profit foundation, the National Disaster Life Support FoundationTM (NDLSFTM), in 2004.
3600	"In order to provide a production-grade service to our large and rapidly growing user base, it is vital to build out the 'whole product', including user support and other operational functions.
3601	In order to seek permanence and achieve objectives deferred in time, the Green Apple must implied the future neighbours not only by awarding them a place to live and work but also an environment that must be filled with life, care and hold responsible.
3602	In order to test the proposed model, we conducted a survey among 1042 Flemish adolescents.
3603	In other countries there are different focuses.
3604	In other places you can see footprints of dinosaurs, terrible lizards, that walked the Earth long before mankind even existed.
3605	In other words, by preventing work to continue on these chapters, the EU has deprived itself of the most effective instruments for promoting reforms.
3606	In other words essential things only, for fuel, for heating, cooking and so on, and extra taxes on all energy that you use, including the stuff that you purchase because everything takes energy to create and make.
3607	In other words, in this situation, who exactly are the Nazis?
3608	In other words, the barbarian type would die off; those who would not join the system and wouldn’t give in to it.
3609	In other words, the Soviet type system was the better way to rule over people and to get your way.
3610	In other words, they'd always be way ahead in reality with their sciences then the public would ever know, and that hasn't happened today.
3611	In other words, they must believe in what they’re doing.
3612	In other words, total management, just total micromanagement.
3613	In other words, we’re too dumb and stupid to be told the truth about anything.
3614	I noticed that last year, it was getting that way, the year before it was a little bit better.
3615	In our globalised world we must be prepared for incidents such as pandemics which can spread very quickly.
3616	In parallel, the French government's roadmap anticipates the tabling of a programme bill on energy transition in June 2013.
3617	In parallel to this call, a number of information days will be organized in different countries participating to the HBP.
3618	In parallel with the river widening, the City of Nijmegen has also been working its 'Nijmegen embraces the River Waal' plan.
3619	In parallel with this, we also worked on the preparation of our ‘Reference Information’.
3620	In particular, as the EGNOS service is being extended to cover North African countries, MEDUSA is implementing two service demonstrations.
3621	In particular, her activity is mainly focused on the generation of very long ground deformation time series by properly merging ERS-1/2 and ENVISAT data.
3622	"In particular, I'm extremely disappointed about the lack of mandatory written contracts.
3623	In particular, reflection on the process of European unification has encouraged considerable maturation as regards the deeper aspects of federalist theory.
3624	In particular, responses are sought from CSDs, CSD users or linked entities, market infrastructures and investors.
3625	In particular, the 2013 edition was hosted and locally organized by NAVIS Centre in Hanoi, Vietnam.
3626	In particular, the mapping tool also offers options for plotting vulnerability of the elderly to a number of potential climate hazards.
3627	In particular, the proposals suggest: EBTP comments on the RED / FQD Review - a consensus of comments made by members of EBTP Working Group 4 Policy and Sustainability as well as members of the EBTP Steering Committee.
3628	In particular, the RACOMAT tool can be used in conjunction with the other tools developed and used within the RASEN project.
3629	In particular, the range of licences available from collecting societies operating in the publishing sector, including scanning licences, continues to grow.
3630	In particular the vineyard removal scheme will be much less extensive than originally proposed.
3631	In particular, we consider both the generating function formalism, valid for degree uncorrelated networks, and the general case of networks with degree correlations.
3632	In particular, we focus on the two representative cooperative relay strategies, decode-and-forward (DF) and amplify-and-forward (AF), and develop optimal spectrum sensing and p-Persistent CSMA for spectrum access.
3633	In particular we will present approaches to deal with pulse-shaping, spectral and temporal fragmentation, performance estimation etc. from a theoretical point of view and apply it to the specific settings.
3634	In particular, when policy evaluation requires reliable estimations broken down by gender, age groups or regions, or when is necessary to increase the reliability of estimates for substances with low prevalence.
3635	In particular, when SMUs are complex (i.e. soil associations), decisions have to be taken on what to present in views representing STU characteristics.
3636	In patients with type 2 diabetes, overall treatment satisfaction improves following a switch from sitagliptin to liraglutide treatment in combination with metformin.
3637	In per-head terms, Vilnius Initiative: The city works with the Vilnius Envi- ronmental Protection Agency and the Vilnius Gediminas Technical University to monitor chemical and particulate emissions.
3638	In practice, most of the time most developers will pick a basic, tried-and-true application structure.
3639	In practice, this regulatory convergence between two economic giants will result in entry barriers and make it more difficult to export services to TTIP markets and the rest of the world.
3640	In practice though, municipally owned companies often continue to operate the units as de facto social housing in terms of rents and access.
3641	In presenting your research at ICPS, you will be connecting with other scientists whose work will be complementary to your own, and you will find yourself being part of a combined endeavor that exemplifies integrative science.
3642	In recent years many visionaries and even policymakers have dreamt of creating societies where transport is green, safe and sustainable, but more often than not these dreams have remained on pen and paper.
3643	In recent years, statistical methods for discrete time observations from diffusion-type processes has started to attract attention and it appears that there are many challenging mathematical problems involved.
3644	In relation to the European Network on Crystalline Silica’s (NEPSIi) Social Dialogue Agreement’s (SDA) 2012 reporting, CEMBUREAU is pleased to announce that 100% reporting has been achieved in the cement industry!
3645	In relation to this last commitment, the sharing of experience between different regions from across the globe during the CSI Forum has demonstrated that co-processing in the cement industry has found its place in the global resource efficiency debate.
3646	In responding to the crisis, EU leaders face a challenge from Russia that is asymmetric: Russia uses direct threats to the sovereignty of the EU’s eastern neighbours, especially through unresolved conflicts, matters the EU is ill-equipped to handle.
3647	In response to questions from a stu-dent, he explains how the city they live in has dramatically reduced its energy con- sumption while also enhancing the quality of life.
3648	In Russian, it’s absolutely free, and all are welcome to subscribe and participate.
3649	InRuTou at the final conference of the project “Big Foot: Crossing Generations, Crossing Mountains”.
3650	Insecticide-impregnated bed nets have been used with some success against anthroponotic infections.
3651	In September 2009, Van den Brande also participated in the European Parliament's exchange of views with Paweł Samecki, then Commissioner-designate for Regional Policy.
3652	In sheep, the incubation period is usually around 5 to 10 days although this may be dependent on the infectious dose of virus.
3653	In short, because gas has emerged as a new variable in the complex Cypriot equation.
3654	In short: European integration strengthened by an Atlantic insurance policy.
3655	In short term perspective, MaxEVA can be used as a benchmarking tool where similar projects and their achievements can be compared.
3656	In short, the teachers were mainly concerned that the students from various groups behaved nicely to one another.
3657	In short, this agreement is an investment in the future.
3658	Inside the bullet was the real invitation for the Wild Game Benefit Dinner, raising thousands of dollars.
3659	Inside, the new remote touch interface with touchpad functionality provides a cutting-edge, user-friendly experience unique to Lexus.
3660	In so doing the work acts as a transitional object between the creator's poïetic experience and that of the spectator.
3661	In some books he has inserted or glued common, everyday object (e.
3662	In some cases business models based on time-critical deliveries may be squeezed out of the market.
3663	In some contractual relationships, such as joint ventures, the distinction between creditor and debtor may be difficult to maintain, and a failure to achieve the agreed upon outcome will often be the result of a lack of mutual cooperation.
3664	Inspector signature, the Construction Inspection Superintendent construction Document Control Procedures shall initial and date.
3665	Insp: If I'm a researcher, what’s in it for me?
3666	In spring 2009, the EU Commission had already voiced concerns when Romania offered its citizenship to Moldovans whom Romania considers former citizens of Romania (see EUDO CITIZENSHIP news of 12 May 2009).
3667	Instead, it is believed they will be used mainly for domestic surveillance.
3668	Instead, it’s a centralised, monopolistic, hardly accountable private organisation that exercises public authority and power.
3669	Instead, reference was made to the SGP, which is something different.
3670	Instead, shareholders should bear the losses, followed by bondholders and only as a last resort large depositors.
3671	Instead, the difference in attractiveness between each pair of benefit and risk criteria is expressed on the following categorical scale: neutral, very weak, weak, moderate, strong, very strong, and extreme.
3672	Instead, they chose to persist.
3673	Instructions Tax exempt interest examples to control the pterodactyl.
3674	Instructors and content authors should review Alternate Content for information on including alternate formats with ATutor content.
3675	Instruct provides access to high specification, specialist infrastructure that is available at Instruct Centres and is listed in the Instruct catalogue.
3676	In such studies, the importance of dispersal, the mechanism that regulates and maintains species coexistence (especially in fragmented habitats), in mediating the biodiversity-ecosystem function relationship, is recognised.
3677	In summary, a significant portion of the R&D activities within the framework of the futurIT Knowledge Centre have international significance from a scientific perspective and also have excellent prospects for their business exploitation.
3678	In summary, there is no justification for the Respondent’s registration of the Disputed Domain Name: it is a commercial exploitation of the TIMET marks, with all of their positive associations and goodwill.
3679	In summer, pollen traps were set up at various distances from the trial field.
3680	In support of these activities ETF carries out a number of background studies and analyses and capacity building activities for the stakeholders in the partner countries.
3681	In support of your finance module lectures, you are taught the key theoretical underpinnings as to why banks exist and how banks operate in the modern economy.
3682	Insurance companies and national governments also stand to benefit from reduced hospitalisation time for non-critical patients.
3683	In Tajikistan the project is a part of a larger Rule of Law program that started in 2012.
3684	Integration Engineers can integrate early and often, starting with globally dispersed executable models, and later with globally dispersed physical devices.
3685	Intel integrates security technology into our products and creates specific cybersecurity hardware and software under our Intel Security brand.
3686	Intel® RCM Remote Control Step-by-step overview includes how to enable screen show, direct control, restart, power, and more.
3687	Intense phytoplankton production may also raise the pH of the water to toxic levels that threaten fish and amphibians; and lower oxygen levels – caused by decaying plant matter – may increase fish mortality levels and inhibit reproduction.
3688	Interactions in a tailor shop in Zambia (then Northern Rhodesia) over a period of ten months.
3689	Interaction skills will be needed within an organization and in customer contexts as well as in interaction between various actors.
3690	INTERACT shall not be liable to third parties for claims which are based on the user’s use of the logo and result from acts and omissions of the user.
3691	Interdisciplinary cooperation has benefited from computer networking.
3692	Interested experts shall propose their candidacy in accordance with the following documents: Contents of the expected proposal: Deadline for submission of proposals: Address for submission of proposals:(as one single pdf file) floriane.
3693	Interesting detail of this approach is that it is situated on the borderline between public and private interest.
3694	Interestingly, the personality traits did not play an important role.
3695	Intergraf's standard is the only international graphic standard for carbon calculation in the world.
3696	In terms of access technology, although there is no "killer" technology, the landscape seems to be stabilizing on a global scale, with LTE comforting its position as the top next-generation mobile broadband system.
3697	In terms of communications, the survey noted that improvements have been made in the past three years, but interactivity can be improved.
3698	In terms of global governance, no credible alternative model has yet emerged that serves the needs and interests of billions of people better than the West’s.
3699	In terms of marketing, the participants will have to answer the question, why the client would want to invest in a project or what is the driver that would make a customer make such an investment.
3700	In terms of theoretical contribution, this workshop will examine and compare different perspectives on conceptualizing and measuring intention assessment in foreign policy opinion and decision-making.
3701	In terms of usage rates per bike, Dublin is probably king with 13 rentals per bike per day.
3702	Internal applications are also possible so that representatives can plan their meetings more easily.
3703	Internally speaking, these organizations tend to be modelled on the state’s structure.
3704	International Conference organised by Projekt: Polska.
3705	International Convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination - December, 21th 1965 The Convention commits its members to the elimination of racial discrimination and the promotion of understanding among all races.
3706	International instability is spreading, uncertainty is increasing, conflicts are now on our borders, but we are still fighting between ourselves about fishing quotas, the delivery of visas and good financial practice!
3707	Internationalisation of S&T cooperation An S&T Association Agreement with the European Union was signed between the European Community and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in November 2009.
3708	Internet enables a multitude of ways to communicate.
3709	"Internet, Set level".
3710	Internet technology continues to evolve, with new protocols under development and existing technologies being continuously tweaked to deal with the demands of tomorrow's applications.
3711	Internet users who are also frequent travellers would greatly benefit from a roaming arrangement among national Internet Access providers.
3712	Interoperability means the ability of a given CMI system to manage CBT lessons from different origins.
3713	Interpolation (constructing new data points within the range of a discrete set of known data points) is one of the methods to do this.
3714	INTERPOL suggesgest to carry our more in-depth studies in order o get an insight in the size of the illegal export, as complete data and analysis are currently lacking.
3715	INTERREG IVC's 'sister programme' URBACT has also been active in this area.
3716	Interview by Pia Fallström Mujkic Image: Alojz Grabner, copyright: STA Sign in to comment and/or rate this article.
3717	Interview to Marian Harkin on the European Year of Volunteering Corporate volunteering is on the rise in Germany Corporate volunteering is on the rise in Germany.
3718	Interview to Vinko Zlatić, Institute Ruđer Bošković, partner of Forecasting Financial Crises The fall of Berlin's wall, the opening of China, the massive deregulation of markets..
3719	Interview with Commisioner Potocnik EU Commissioner for Science and research J. Potocnik on the main benefits of EU integration for the young generations.
3720	Interview with Sali Berisha, Prime Minister of Albania, on the Kopenhagen criteria, the Irish referendum and the work ahead to comply.
3721	Interview with the EP Rapporteur, Marc Tarabella.
3722	In that sense, Beijing does not support coercive diplomacy against Russia and seeks a negotiated resolution of a crisis that has to a certain extent been facilitated by the intervention of many foreign actors in Ukrainian politics.
3723	In the 13 years since the university was founded, our research has been underpinned by partnerships and cooperation with the public sector, industry and universities from around the world.
3724	In the 20th century, when the so-called traditional parties (socialists, social democrats, conservatists, liberals) began to lose their electorate, their members also started to leave their ranks.
3725	In the A-Brain project, researchers of the Parietal and KerData INRIA teams jointly address this computational problem using cloud computing techniques on Microsoft Azure cloud computing environment.
3726	In the ANTIFLU project Vichem will develop inhibitors against various host-cell kinases to treat influenza infection.
3727	In the area of chemical production processes, however, the level of control achieved so far is crude compared with what is seen in nature.
3728	In the beginning it gives some general information on Albania (area, population, GDP etc), then it focuses on R&D investment and human resources in S&T in Albania.
3729	In the case at hand, there’s a use of a symbol that has not a unique transliteration or definition (it could be referred as “asterisk” as well as “star” and “wildcard”), so a rewriting seems not the straightforward decision.
3730	In the case of Amphitryon Zabłocki enters a more informal relation with the original and the theatre traditions, though the register and style of Kowalski’s language also diverge much from the original.
3731	In the case of direct exploitation, not for research use, you agree to compensate the EU Lead Factory via a scheme of milestone payments.
3732	In the case of migration, we need a more intelligent strategy.
3733	In the case of notifications anon scheduled on-site inspection is carried out.
3734	In the case of the American names, it can also provide names typical of particular eras, from Victorian writee the present csharp write file.
3735	In the Churnet Valley we have started sharing skills, resources and responsibilities across sectors (Private, Public, NGO) and statutory boundaries (local Authority, DEFRA, Environment Agency).
3736	In the “classic Telco” case, services delivered can be clearly and unambiguously specified - contracts and formal SLAs well suited for handling the relationship between the Telco and its customer.
3737	“In the coming years, we strive to support research and development in Europe and the rest of the world,” explains TBVI director Jelle Thole.
3738	In the Council of Ministers, under the double majority qualified voting system since November 2014, it has 12.3% of the votes based on population, so a Brexit would imply different voting majorities in the Council.
3739	In the countries of Europe social spending often represents an overwhelming share of total public spending.
3740	In the country I reside, banks use a very aggressive marketing and they”burned” a lot of people thru hidden fees, variable rates, and many surcharges due the lack of bankruptcy legislation.
3741	In the course of its concert tours the ensemble has visited the Spring Arts Festival in Nantes, the Monteverdi Festival in Cremona, the Munich State Opera and the Salzburg Festival.
3742	In the course of the tutorial we will introduce in particular GPRS and Wireless LAN from an architectural perspective, and explain procedures for integrating them into larger IT infrastructures as they can be typically found in Enterprises.
3743	In the cross-over between these two top sectors – the JPI HDHL related topic Intestinal Microbiomics is of high interest.
3744	In the development of our highly efficient fuel cell heating unit, we will be meeting the demands of energy policy for increased efficiency with a sustainable, environmentally responsible and clean solution.
3745	In the early 80's he proposed the architecture that would decentralize the naming services on Internet, and performed the initial deployment of servers for root domains and top level domains (TLD).
3746	In the end everybody gained a lot of experience.
3747	In the end, participants in the workshop came up with two key messages to be delivered to COP21 negotiators.
3748	In the end, sovereign equality, understood as the determination of how they should lead a good life, becomes a hollowed out concept.
3749	In the end this will provide benchmarks and will give procurers the possibility to ask for energy improvements of their services - saving tax payers money and the environment.
3750	In the end you will have the right decision.
3751	In the ENHANCE consortium, he is coordinating the case study driven research, and leads a work package on regulatory policy instruments.
3752	In the estimation of possible effects, the actual concentrations are compared with the levels that can cause effects.
3753	In the European marketing authorization, the schedule recommended for Prevenar 13 consists of four doses, three primary doses, followed by a booster dose between 11 and 15 months of age.
3754	In the event that an application was rightfully rejected due to the registrar's negligence, the ADR procedure cannot be used to assist the unfortunate applicant, who must pursue any claims directly against the registrar.
3755	In the field of ecodesign, the Sector Forum is a joint one between CEN and CENELEC.
3756	In the field of façade systems, we presented the post and beam MB-TT50 System, which enables the construction of screening or filling walls, roofs and spatial structures.
3757	In the first half of April 2010, we will launch three full sets of Situational Judgment Tests, each comprising 24 questions that measure all competencies that EPSO wishes to test in candidates.
3758	In the first line, the target audience are the PhD candidates and junior postdocs of the ScienceCampus.
3759	In the former version of the E-form (E-Form 1.0) only the first 7 countries were kept in the E-form even if a longer list of countries was input.
3760	In the frame of the workshops, the participants also had the opportunity to receive concrete explanations to their questions.
3761	In the Helix Nebula project, EMBL is the sponsor of the Genomic Assembly in the Cloud flagship use case.
3762	In the immediate postwar years, there was covert US activity to build a federal Europe, in the shape of the American Committee on United Europe (ACUE).
3763	In the industry's Landmark Survey, we achieved the highest overall Customer Satisfaction Index score since 1998.
3764	In their ubiquity they are influencing the co-constitutional process of public sphere, public values and public practice.
3765	In the journalism lab track and the get the tools track coders and journalists could meet and exchange ideas.
3766	In the last 30 years the sword of Damocles has always been hanging over the UK’s membership of the EU.
3767	In the last decades, a steady and fast increase in transportation demand and traffic density accompanied by aggravated congestion with its negative impact on traffic efficiency, safety cost and the environment has been observed.
3768	In the last decade the European Investment Bank has provided nearly GBP 2.5 billion for education investment across the UK.
3769	In the last five years, atomic structures of fusion and attachment proteins of several paramyxoviruses have been reported.
3770	In the last forty years, Egypt’s population has doubled, and the growth rate is not slowing down.
3771	In the last week´s game against Southampton (5:3) he scored once and put two great assists right in front of..
3772	In the latter case, they also need to show that there are no suitable alternative substances or technologies available.
3773	In the law for the functioning of the service of 1998 it is mentioned that, art.6, line 2, that the nomination of the SIE manager is made by CSAT at the proposal of the head of state.
3774	In the middle of the night before the INTA vote, in a last ditch emergency meeting with the EPP, they waved through an amendment that specifically excluded any reference to opposing ISDS.
3775	In the multidisciplinary basic module, the emphasis is on an overall, coherent, interdisciplinary and scientific risk approach.
3776	In the near future, thanks to this promising research, our homes will have a distributed network of intelligent devices providing us with information, communication, and entertainment.
3777	In the next months animation editing will be added to the system.
3778	In the next paragraphs we discuss quickly the different services.
3779	In the Panel's view, the issue in the case is the respect of the requirements laid down in Article 3 of EC Regulation No. 874/2004 prior the registration of the domain name.
3780	In the past 20 years, the number of old persons increased by 56%, and in 2050 the population aged 60 and over is projected to reach 2 billion out an estimated total of about 9.6 billion.
3781	In the past, some small and isolated combinations of renewable electricity and hydrogen production were demonstrated: these projects were limited in capacity and were relatively short in duration.
3782	In the past there other object in digging.
3783	In the past, this has not always been the case, and the EU’s policies toward third countries have been self-contradictory.
3784	In the period 2005-2009 citizens from EU-8 (central and eastern European) countries living in the UK experienced a higher fiscal burden than the native population.
3785	In the period preceding employment, checks can be made, for instance, to determine which position is appropriate for which person.
3786	In the pop-up menu click Open with and then click Choose default program.
3787	In the present case, the Panel determined that, even if the application had been made in good faith, he Registry had reached an appropriate decision not to accept the application.
3788	In the previously held Regional European workshops four of the major questions surrounding this new partnership have been explored: What role should patient organisations have in clinical trials?
3789	In the probate section, students learn about wills and what happens if one dies without a will.
3790	In the process of accomplishing our noble mission, let’s have a good time.
3791	In the project countries the death rates among identified patients are measured around 31%.
3792	In the public's opinion the State draws a major share of its legitimacy - the right to have rights as expressed by Hannah Arendt - because it forms a part of social solidarity.
3793	In the recognition of Kosovo we need to be the closest allies of the United States in the region.
3794	In the same trend, EDS call for a dialog between member states of the European Union in order to create a political consensus and a united stand towards extremism.
3795	In these cases, Konica Minolta points out for which purpose the data is raised as well as information on whether the data input is voluntary or mandatory for the usage of the services concerned.
3796	In these cases, the energy in the cooling water is transferred to the district heating system via a heat exchanger.
3797	In the second and third years of the course, core modules are Legal Systems, Jurisprudence in Law and the team-taught Law and Literature module.
3798	In the second case, temporality can be used as a strategy to direct and to focus developments of revitalisation on certain areas.
3799	In these markets, branches are focused on delivering financial advice and high-end services; therefore, their innovation priorities revolve around improving customer experience within the branch.
3800	In these theories it is recognized that in addition to simple and complex risk issues, to which the classic risk approach is used, also uncertain and ambiguous risks arise.
3801	In these two Member States, a relative decoupling of direct material requirements and economic growth has occurred.
3802	In these years, Eidos designs and launches on the market other successful devices: CO2 laser markers, percussion markers, etc.
3803	In the States, of course, they put more cash into it.
3804	In the table underneath the emission timeseries per substance and per country can be downloaded.
3805	In the technical classroom, the pupils were given brief information about the CESLA project whereby we acquainted them with the e-mobility notion.
3806	In the third part of the paper, I set out an approach to proportionality that enables a more concrete application of the principle through a more rigorous approach to military advantage and the value of human lives.
3807	In the traditional browser architecture, every process happens in a rigid chronological sequence: until the program hasn’t finished processing, say, a piece of JavaScript, it cannot proceed to render the remainder of the page or web app.
3808	In the UK, Display Energy Certificates (DECs) show the actual energy usage of a building, the Operational Rating, and help the public see the energy efficiency of a building.
3809	In the wake of the announcement of his resignation, the Belfast daily wonders about the contenders who could replace Benedict XVI.
3810	In the words of former ECB board member Juergen Stark who recently admitted in an interview with the German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine that “…the balance sheet of the euro system, isn’t only gigantic in size but also shocking in quality”.
3811	In this area, work on the Eighth Framework Programme for Research is due to start in the near future.
3812	In this capacity, it participates in many (inter)national research initiatives and maintains strong ties to the international research community and government agencies.
3813	In this case, we may think that OFE and the 3rd pillar can be really helpful – additional savings can mean additional investments.
3814	In this class, students learn how to install and maintain Oracle Database 11g.
3815	In this context, he will sign 5 financing agreements for a total amount of more than 200 million euros, which will focus support on infrastructure, the social sectors and governance.
3816	In this context, model quality objectives (MQO) based on observation uncertainty have been discussed and the methodology is consolidated in the so-called DELTA tool.
3817	In this context, respondents were asked whether Lithuania`s decision to veto the EU`s negotiations with Russia on the agreement of strategic partnership was fair.
3818	In this country known for its hospitability and with a widely accepted self-image of a peaceful and friendly nation, why is Tolerance Building through History Education, the title of this project, an issue worth addressing?
3819	In this course you will familiarize yourself with the newest operating system created by Microsoft Corporation - Windows 8. You will become familiar with the new user interface, so called Metro style.
3820	In this crucial and historic time all democratic political forces have to stand united to resist the Russian aggression and to achieve a better future for the country and for the Ukrainian people.
3821	In this game you should help Scooby Doo to across the rive..
3822	In this issue: Conference explores maritime surveillance developments; EMSA receives two important parliamentary visits; In memory of Minna Levanen; Major update for EMCIP accident investigation portal; EMSA takes part in..
3823	In this paper, we describe a testbed capable of emulating dynamic topologies, augmented by experiments on an IEEE 802.11b-based wireless network and describe the use of the testbed in research on protocols and integration for mobile ad hoc networks.
3824	In this paper we present a dynamic component isolation approach for the OSGi platform, based on a recently standardized Java mechanism.
3825	In this project an appropriate ATM application will be chosen for investigation.
3826	In this red cell, enter the size of the unrevoked 3.3 evo mental dictionary from unreoked a user would draw to create a passphrase.
3827	In this regard, it is a cultural layer which illumines the hospitality matrix in Oromo religious ritual observance.
3828	In this regard, members highlighted the need to prioritise the themes covered as well as to make a distinction between current and future priorities.
3829	In this regard, we commend the special focus by DPI and its UN news centre on issues that require special coverage, such as the monitoring of the situation in Syria or in the Sahel.
3830	In this section, we offer first our vision of the future pattern of support to farmers and other land managers, including payments for environmental and social services.
3831	In this section we will add presentations, articles and other material related to EURISGIC.
3832	In this section you can find Researchers events and Terence related news.
3833	In this sense it proves to be a largely uncontrollable activity.
3834	In this sense, this EEA initiative pretends to help close the gap between research activities and decision making needs, enhancing the meeting of the policy demand side and the modelling offers.
3835	In this step, the user runs the instrumented application as usual, and a special output file is generated (by default, it is named gmon.
3836	In this study we want to address two specific questions that are part of this larger debate on mediatization of politics.
3837	In this talk, we present the performance evaluation results obtained when applying on-line learning in combination with adaptive resilience techniques.
3838	In this tutorial, we' Exotic Shower foam with Mango extract It's time for a shower project: an exotic shower foam with mango scent and mango extract.
3839	In this view trips (A, B, C) in a journey are the constructors of service component ensembles (SCE).
3840	In this way Rembrandt puts all the emphasis on Christ as the one who sees to it that his garden flourishes as an earthly paradise, as a place where life is good.
3841	In this way, system designers (both newcomers and experts) will be given a clear understanding of the different options available to them, have some support for their intuition, and will therefore make better initial architectural decisions.
3842	In this way, the data “silos” from each department can be consolidated in a single hospital-wide system that makes all the material they contain visible to authorised viewers.
3843	In this way, the euro has already contributed directly to a more integrated EU financial system.
3844	In this way the maximum division of labour which is compatible with given tastes and given technique is continuously enforced.
3845	In this workshop, foresight and mobility experts and European policy makers discussed the possible impacts of long-term smart mobility futures, and what this means for European policy.
3846	In those situations, it is often worthwhile to let the compiler try to auto-parallelise some of the program loops.
3847	In times of global economic crisis Europe cannot afford to miss the energy savings opportunity.
3848	In today's communication, the European Commission defends a proactive stance to support industry in their efforts to withstand the crisis, soften negative effects and ensure long-term competitiveness.
3849	Into the cloud or into the lightening?
3850	Intra-day – issues include the extent to which continuous trading platforms can or should be extended across national markets and regions.
3851	Intraday target model implementation will make it easier for market parties to trade electricity across borders close to gate closure and keep their position in balance.
3852	Intralobar nephrogenic rests (ILNR) are randomly distributed, but tend to be situated deep within the renal lobe.
3853	In turn, these variations impact on the type and nature of risk present and on the steps that can be taken to minimise this risk.
3854	In two Australian studies (Copeland et al., 2001; Reilly et al., 1998), community samples of heavy or long-term cannabis users had levels of educational attainment and employment similar to or higher than those of the general population.
3855	Inva Mula, born in Tirana, Albania in 1963, is one of the leading sopranos of her generation.
3856	Investment on public transport will also result in conserving the environment, slashing the financial impact of traffic congestions, and shifting the demand for mobility services from private vehicles to public transit means.”
3857	Investment opportunities will be sought, on a worldwide basis.
3858	Investor relations managers, CFO and Investment managers in charge of this role. 12:00-13:00: Registrations and Lunch 13:45-14:45: What is Investor Relations (IR) and how to get it right?
3859	In view of the deployment stage, users need to carefully plan the network layout to meet a range of requirements, e.g., in terms of communication reliability.
3860	In view of the importance of this workshop and the potential benefit for your activities, we trust on your active participation at and contribution to this workshop.
3861	In what follows, the main findings, arguments and points of discussion that were presented and articulated during the conference are presented.
3862	In WP5, TARA will support the field tests and evaluations based on the previously developed prototype.
3863	In Years 2 and 3 there are no core American Studies modules so you can maintain a balance between literature, history and culture, or you can gradually concentrate on certain subjects.
3864	"I offer my full support to all Scotland's farmers and will be ready to argue their case in Europe, alongside my colleagues, as and when it is required.
3865	I ordered my staff to prepare a pool for the seal.
3866	IOT360 will be opened with 12 scientific conferences covering different areas such as IoT technologies for health care, safety and security in IoT, interoperability in IoT among others.
3867	IoT council, a thinktank for the Internet of Things Petra Sundström is these days Chief Science Officer at ayond, a flexible digital agency offering strategy, usability, design, innovation & development for e-commerce, web, mobile & IoT services.
3868	I personally think that we ourselves are far too gloomy about our own achievements; we are much better than we think we are.
3869	IP locations are determined at the EMSC premises thanks to a database provided by our partner Digital Element.
3870	I prefer to take each day, each moment as it comes and enjoy every second of it.
3871	I provide also technical support for technology intelligence and activities to develop new technologies and innovative solutions as well as supports the development of studies focused on the implementation of good practices.
3872	I publish regularly (essays, poetry, theological analyses, articles on art) in Bulgarian literary newspapers and magazines.
3873	I realised from the beginning that a family business requires a lot of responsibility and how the whole own family is involved all the time.”
3874	I recommend the LawlessLatvia website for information.
3875	I remember once, a long time ago, one of our listeners called in and he said: if we don't have this to hold on to, what do we have?
3876	I remember seeing Takao featured in one of the first ship rendering pictures to be released.
3877	IRE’s mission is to encourage the emergence of new proposals in the economic domain.
3878	Irina’s experience and expertise have contributed to the national counter-trafficking efforts of a number of countries, in particular in Eastern Europe and Central Asia.
3879	Ischemic strokes are the most common and these occur when small clots interrupt the blood supply to the brain.
3880	Is Colombian society aware of the problem of corruption?
3881	ISCOMS: International talent for Healthy Ageing.
3882	ISDS mechanisms are particularly attractive to corporations because they usually allow them to ‘leapfrog’ domestic courts and litigate directly before an ad-hoc tribunal.
3883	I see in the Albanian people the need to change many things fast.
3884	I see the Association Agreement and its DCFTA as a nation-wide project, in which each of you will have a role to play.
3885	I see this as a sign of increasing co-operation between the Parliament, the Council, and the European Commission.
3886	I seldom get a chance in fact to check out – I haven't seen a video for about a year.
3887	I shouldn't say “ours” because we didn't design it.
3888	I should say cultural control movement from the Frankfurt School.
3889	Is its use a major problem among youngsters?
3890	ISO 20022 meets key corporate expectations (EPC Newsletter, Issue 3, July 2009) The silent Revolution.
3891	ISO expects the standard to be completed for publication in 2007.
3892	I spose he would make your life change.
3893	Issues covered by this programme range from global governance, human rights and donor aid strategy, to global health challenges, climate change impacts and ecosystem management.
3894	Issues of the presumption of innocence of a person in applying civil liability are examined.
3895	I started pondering that, in fact, in the last year we were mainly having fun rather than being worried by this deliberately sought similarity between the former and the current First Man of the country.
3896	I, Stéphanie Thomas, President of LIVE DMA, subscribe the above letter to the President of the European Commission.
3897	Is that a giant sweatshirt that girl could wear?
3898	Is that good enough for that?
3899	Is the commitment potentially open to additional partners and if so, in which priority area (please tick the relevant options)?
3900	Is the ordering process automated.
3901	Is there an alarm in the plant?
3902	Is there a need for judicial review or ‘justiciability’?
3903	Is there any distance gotten out of him writing that book, taking the heat out, more or less?
3904	Is there anything nearby that could be a danger to me, or vice versa?
3905	Is there a Palestinian will and capability to start the negotiations?
3906	Is the web distracting us from living?
3907	Is this because states have not arrogated to themselves sufficient coercive powers, or do inadequate human, technical and financial resources explain more about operational failure?
3908	Is this child PC?
3909	Is this way accessible today?
3910	It actually was NASA's Langley Research Center in Hampton Virginia that tested this together with something called Eastern Virginia Medical School.
3911	It aids in the development of progesterone and it also assists in developing the genitalia of the baby.
3912	It aims to create an international focus for publications on Asia while increasing their worldwide visibility.
3913	I take you up to the ceiling of that level, but many can never go further because of fear or because they want to bring the baggage of old comforts, old beliefs with them.
3914	It also acknowledges that enet is a well-positioned, well managed and high growth company with a clear focus on delivering high quality telecommunications services to organisations in every city, town and county in Ireland.
3915	It also aims at developing an online tool that will help cities and regions to compare their recycling performances following a common methodology.
3916	It also aims at ensuring better management of the risks relating to sailing/navigation thanks to precautionary and durable legal tools on maritime transport.
3917	It also aims to allow users to discover associations between apparently unrelated classes or expression patterns.
3918	It also alters the scope of the directive, simplifies the rules on cases of limited exposure, introduces a new measuring method and settles the question of training for workers.
3919	It also analyses social research of the personality of an offender done by foreign probation services, i.e. four main stages of the research.
3920	It also analyses the relevant indicators which already exist.
3921	It also backed two resolutions which keep the issues of accountability and reconciliation in Sri Lanka on the agenda of the Human Rights Council and deal with the concerns over human rights violations in Mali.
3922	It also brings a severe threat relating to a key problem of CRTES; the need to prove that all temporal constraints will be satisfied during operation.
3923	It also can apply to the recharge of an aquifer.
3924	It also contributes to the harmonisation of the ISO 20022 message usage rules and the development of European market practices, mainly in the areas of settlement and reconciliation.
3925	It also creates new jobs, drives economic growth and provides solutions for societal, climate and energy challenges.
3926	It also demonstrates that this approach allows scientific and non-scientific stakeholders to overcome the increase complexity of the integration effort mentioned above and charts the trajectory for the evolution of current spatial data infrastructures.
3927	It also describes how a smoke detector works using special effects and close-ups.
3928	"It also doesn't cost tens of thousands of dollars."
3929	It also generated a very useful discussion concerning best practices and procedures within these important areas.
3930	It also has several more registred trademarks containing the name »NATWEST«.
3931	It also highlights that during his visit to Brazil this week, Gambardella brings a message that European companies want to explore ways to support negotiations.
3932	It also included examples of current BT capabilities in this light as well as providing the differences between “as a Service” or “with a Service”.
3933	It also includes all publications from any academic series sponsored by the EUI, such as working paper series and theses written by EUI researchers.
3934	It also includes the possibility of making energy efficiency a condition for the allocation of EU funds.
3935	It also intends to promote integration between the various parties operating in the Province of Trento Research System (in particular, the University and Research Centers) within the ICT sector.
3936	It also provides a platform for constructive technology assessment and for exploring societal and policy goals related to ICT and Human Adapted Design innovation in an urban context.
3937	It also utilises contemporary mathematical and statistical techniques that allow better prediction of soil properties in areas with little or no information as well as indicating the uncertainty of such predictions.
3938	Italy records an income of approximately 42 billion euros for spending related to travel in our art cities, 10 billion of which can be attributed to foreign tourism.
3939	It appears that internal devaluation is many times more destructive for the economy than external devaluations we were used to.
3940	It appears to be a completed, painted version of a pencil sketch drawn by Leonardo da Vinci in Mantua in the Lombardy region of northern Italy in 1499.
3941	It begins with streamlining the EU’s programs in a more targeted way.
3942	It brings together 40 academics, between three and ten years since achieving a PhD: some postdocs, others tenure-tracks, and some professors.
3943	It brings together into this mix the views of leading researchers and practitioners from around the globe from a series of high-level discussions and workshops.
3944	It brings together researchers in order to step beyond the limitations of solutions that are applicable now, and develop concepts, models and solutions for upcoming challenges.
3945	It brought together over 1000 attendees from more than 56 countries to create, share, network, converse, learn, hack, brainstorm, listen, debate, contemplate and party!
3946	It can also be sold through wholesale booksellers.
3947	It can be anything, really: Just keep your eyes open and find out how many things in your life are diverse and colourful in their unique ways!
3948	It can be pointed out by communication and consultation.
3949	It can be used only with the prior written authorization of the Contracting Authority”.
3950	It can certainly worsen it Pingback: Protesilaos Stavrou on current issues » Blog Archive » Can a bigger EFSF contain the crisis?
3951	It can either bring on rain, or it can disperse clouds.
3952	It can rise and fall in unison with bond yields, but also with bond prices; it can fall on a widening trade deficit, but it can also rise if that deficit is expected to lead to..
3953	It carries out scientific research in various fields, achieving high-standard results, which are acknowledged both on a national and an international level.
3954	It certainly can in regard to the first point.
3955	It collaborates with major European think tanks.
3956	It combines sensor data with crowd sourced information covering the length of lift queues, the quality of ski centre facilities, and points of interest.
3957	It comes out of Hamilton, Ontario.
3958	It concluded by considering the extent to which the identified risks are already ad- dressed in existing EU directives and regula- tions and national regulatory frameworks.
3959	It contains Milestone 11, a workshop on semantic mark-up generation, data quality and user-participation infrastructure, scheduled for February 2013.
3960	It could also be used for evidence-based inputs if integrated into a systematic evaluation process of creative industries practices and policies.
3961	It could cause warming or cooling depending on the type of particle they used.
3962	It covers some of the technological trends that are experimenting with and/or gaining popularity and growing concern (e.g. data movement between chips and System on Chip (SoC)).
3963	It covers the following aspects: character set, pre-notification, sequence types for SDD collections, R-transactions and currency conversion.
3964	It deals with resource and energy efficiency in industry and serves to determine and improve the ecological and economic potential of manufacturing SMEs.
3965	It didn’t happen by chance, believe you me, and they won’t mention that little bit here.
3966	It displays if all expected events are received on messaging server, so any missing event can be easily detected and component that didn’t produce the event can be pointed out.
3967	It does not differ from Neo-Nazism in terms of its ideological principles, what is different is its manner of appealing to the public, its image, and the informal structure of the movement.
3968	It does not matter how a government came to power, explains Hobbes.
3969	It doesn't dissolve much in water and has a high affinity towards organic matter.
3970	It doesn’t even stay to be registered.
3971	It doesn't matter if God himself comes down and tells them they're all wrong.
3972	It emphasises the rights of human beings to food and it obligates governments to create adequate preconditions to feed oneself as well as the priority for politicians to directly protect the poor and hungry.
3973	It employs a complex approach to diagnosis, incorporating techniques such as pulse and urinalysis, and utilizes behavior and dietary modification, medicines composed of natural materials and physical therapies like acupuncture to treat illnesses.
3974	It employs more than 1,700 IT specialists worldwide.
3975	It ensures the implementation of national policy in the areas of environment protection, meteorology, climatology, hydrology, geology and hazardous waste.
3976	It establishes mandatory level of initial qualification and periodic training for professional drivers in the European Union.
3977	It explains in a nice visual format the story of what happened in VOICES, from the setting up of the consultations to why it was so important in the current context of Responsible Research and Innovation.
3978	It explores how to select appropriate involvement formats and looks at the practical work of conducting a participation process.
3979	It falls under the responsibility of UNEP which is the designated authority on environmental issues at the global and regional level within the UN system.
3980	It focuses by definition on the thematic content and not on the interregional cooperation process.
3981	It focuses on public leaders, managers and advisors which are directly and indirectly (government, ngo’s, enterprises, citizen-organisations) involved with social and economic development.
3982	It found that the current SF process tends to favour single (monofocus) projects.
3983	It functions based on proton activation process that is similar to photo activation in photovoltaic process with a same physical principle as a solar cell, but continuously convert chemical energy to electricity as a fuel cell.
3984	It furthermore includes photos of police offices, for example in relation to trials.
3985	It gives a detailed picture of the soil properties in individual soil horizons and is important for modelling studies.
3986	It gives a lot of information about psychotronic weapons.
3987	It has a duty to keep these words within usage, not merely pander to an audience.
3988	It has aggravated the already difficult situation caused by continued high food prices and limited wage earning opportunities.
3989	It has also provided training to school bus drivers and attendants, and only those who are certified by the authority can drive school buses.
3990	It has always been parked.
3991	It has a qualified staff and it worked and operates in international cooperation.
3992	It has been released by MIUR during March 2013.
3993	It has been said before, but the European consumer movement is lucky to have such dedicated people working for it.
3994	It has full, aggregated multimedia material on major topics, including all elections-related news from the EP News Website.
3995	It has however several irremovable handicaps.
3996	It has one of the best-known nautical harbour systems in Europe.
3997	It has proven to be very hard for the CCP to get a solid foot on the ground in Europe, while there is really something to get (i.
3998	It has substantial experience in digital signal processing for wired and wireless communications, including single and multi-carrier modulation and advanced forward error correction.
3999	It has two parts.
4000	It helps you quickly compare data in tables, find the differences at a glance, and generate script to effortlessly synchronize data.
4001	I think I'll start off slow like the guy in this particular movie "Zorba."
4002	I think in general ruin of the TEEN was also reflected in for now that her. monogram ambigram letters generator purchase price of purple ties varies mainly anxious period was satisfactory.
4003	I think it is acceptable for men to dominate woman.
4004	I think I want to see it, but every bone in my body however is saying "NNNNNNNNnnnnnnnnnnnnnooooooo"!
4005	I think we should just say no to them all.
4006	I think we’ve covered most of the essentials and if you have any questions please feel free to submit them to me.
4007	I think you will find that MOST English people will quickly and without second thought “wave goodbye” to Scotland.
4008	I thought that was odd in itself.
4009	It implies that games that are injected with a strong societal or educational message are qualitatively different from “regular games.”
4010	It integrates channel emulation, digital generation of impairments such as AWGN, standard multipath profiles for emulating 3GPP reference propagation conditions and provides up to 4×2 MIMO features.
4011	It integrates the state-of-the-art techniques developed at the Intelligent Systems Lab Amsterdam of the University of Amsterdam and applies it to realistic problems in video indexing.
4012	It involves partners that excel in different technological areas and it is expected that the project will successfully integrate the state of the art in different disciplines.
4013	It is a criminal offence to pass on a banknote which you believe or know is a counterfeit.
4014	It is a decision between life and death, between murder and savior and between trust and deliverance.
4015	It is a further opportunity to implement this policy, given that the Europe 2020 strategy also includes the objective of cutting CO2 emissions.
4016	It is all about managing continuous cycles of sustainably produced materials,’ says Van Gansewinkel marketing manager Florens Slob, who argues that raw materials are quite simply of strategic importance for European industry.
4017	It is also a great chance for politicians to fight the myth that in Brussels there are only lazy bureaucrats and, on the other side, there are only good citizens who are all behaving responsibly and sustainably.
4018	It is also a key message emerging from our latest workstream on Social Innovation, which pays particular attention to the link between urban regeneration and design.
4019	It is also possible to express, for example, that some thoroughfare names cross borders between municipalities and thus is situated within more than one municipality.
4020	It is also referred to as 5-ethyl-5-phenylbarbituric acid.
4021	It is also used in wood preservatives and is very poisonous.
4022	It is a matter of mutual trust and good practices in relations between friends and allies.
4023	It is amazing how you think everything totally against the natural order of things.
4024	It is a nice collection with strong focus on Hungary.
4025	It is an intensive training course, where theoretical lectures are illustrated by integrated demonstrations and discussions on relevant industrial case studies.
4026	It is a partnership of research libraries and library consortia who are working together to improve global access to European research theses.
4027	It is a place where students research alongside renowned faculty who light up the classrooms.
4028	It is a privilege, to learn about European projects through the voices and experiences of its protagonists.
4029	It is at the service of its members and supports them in commonly agreed priority areas through dedicated cooperative projects.
4030	It is a very advantageous solution: clean, ecological and safe for the operator because it does not use solvents.
4031	It is based on current events and dangers as they are perceived when a crisis government attempts to eliminate symptoms of causes that have not been diagnosed.
4032	It is based on tested ideas and policies.
4033	It is based on two main pillars: the business units Rx (prescription products) and Consumer Healthcare (OTC products).
4034	It is bizarre for me, sometimes, to speak with politically interested people, who studied at postmodern universities of the last 20 years, and still have not the slightest clue of one obvious fact of our societies today.
4035	It is capable of comparing path expressions in the presence of real-world DTDs (such as the W3C SMIL and XHTML language recommendations).
4036	It is caused by microscopic roundworms or nematode (“nema” is the Greek word for “thread”) parasites, commonly called ﬁlariae (the Latin word “ﬁlum” means “thread”).
4037	It is common when people are steering ships to focus on a certain area either in search of enemy ships or in snipping.
4038	It is crucial that EPC providers recognize that they will benefit from adhering to a set of rules for the EPC business as this will result in increased trust from clients and, consequently, an increase in demand.
4039	It is difficult to forecast what will happen now.
4040	It is difficult to understand, let alone explain to plain citizens, why in a Single Market and in an Economic and Monetary Union, economic policies recognised by the Treaties as of common interest are not at least a shared competence.
4041	It is enough to read some social media networks to see that Ukrainians are becoming more aware that it is probably better to turn towards Europe than to Russia.
4042	It is estimated that some 800 000 m3 of wood might generate approx. 100 Gwh of green power a year.
4043	It is estimated that there could be as many as 1.5 million transgender people in the European Union (EU).
4044	It is evident that, if the law is not able to contain all the powers of the state within the limits which the constitution assigns to them, i.e. if it cannot express itself autonomously in society, one does not have a true constitutional state.
4045	It is expected that the completion of the technical documentation will accelerate the future construction of the Motorway A4, which will result in stimulation of international passengers traffic, freight traffic, as well as inter-modal transport.
4046	It is expected that the grant agreement negotiations for the selected proposals will start in November 2013.
4047	It is expected that the selection of Full Project Proposals for funding will take place in October 2011.
4048	“It is expected that this new procedure will boost confidence in a protected legal position and encourage purchases of foreign immovable property,” says Wim Louwman, director of the project from the European Land Registry Association (ELRA).
4049	It is founding member of the Foundation High Technical Institute A. Cuccovillo, special school of technology.
4050	It is futile to cut off the noses of specific active ingredients just because the industry face of abuse is ugly.
4051	It is generated by your CONFINE testbed controller, and can be download from there.
4052	It is good to be familiar with the audience beforehand as you would like to give them an essay that they prefer reading.
4053	It is hoped that the Centre will strengthen academic exchanges between Chinese and European scholars, thus helping to overcome the still-existing barriers between scholarly research in the West and in the East.
4054	It is hosted and organized by the University of Salford.
4055	It is, however, possible that the structural, chemical composition of the Cry proteins has a significant effect on the binding behaviour of the Cry proteins, as well as the characteristics of the soil constituents.
4056	It is imperative that citizens are not given the impression that their views no longer count, as this will only increase the distance between the European Union and the citizens.
4057	It is implemented in python as part of the (freely available) PlanetLab implementation.
4058	It is important that the sum of the allocated amounts will equal the amount of payment received based on the cash custodian's official receipt and the separate.
4059	It is important to find an experienced specialist to ensure that you are getting medicinal care that you can count on.
4060	It is important to note that the PhRMA BRAT framework does not advocate a specific method to weigh the preferences of outcomes in the value tree, or require the use of weights at all.
4061	It is important to think in advance about the questions you want to be answered.
4062	It is impossible to conclude that there any ‘overriding issues of transnational, or European interest’ that justify the continued operation of a common agricultural policy financed by a common budget.
4063	It is impossible to have confidence in men who apparently lack these faculties.
4064	It is indeed important to determine whether mobile public networks could manage mobility instead of opening the door for what may end up being a potentially-costly assignment policy from a resource management perspective.
4065	It is indeed very hard to define.
4066	It is in principle possible that under the licence terms the re-user is required to show compliance.
4067	It is intended for education to perform vocation in the following fields: agriculture, cattle breeding, electrical field, glasswork, carpentry.
4068	It is interesting that he was appointed a general inspector of the Czechoslovak army after the origin of the Czechoslovak Republic in 1918.
4069	It is in the interest of the European Union to engage established and aspiring global powers in a sustained dialogue on how to confront pressing common challenges..
4070	It is in this spirit that we sign the Memorandum of Understanding today”, said Jorge Domecq at the signature ceremony.
4071	It is just semantics, and you seem so blind by nationalist hatred that you can’t see it.
4072	It is like the "El Tenedor" Spanish app for going out at night instead of restaurants.
4073	It is my favored method of communication, but you could also reach me by Skype.
4074	It is my hope that the Romanians will set aside economic issues and defend European Romania," he repeated.
4075	It is necessary to modernise the education programmes; the private sector should have the possibility to contribute and participate in the education process, organise the intern programmes, open days, etc.
4076	It is no more and followed his sister used cerita sex sedarah mama an argument share he only asks.
4077	It is normal enough, in today’s Europe, that a territory with a distinct local culture and political outlook should enjoy self-rule.
4078	It is not a secret anymore that with the growth of data, many organizations struggle to filter it and get value of it.
4079	It is not possible to describe a future situation in a holistic way, so scenarios have to focus on specific issues and leave many things aside that might be of relevance in other research contexts.
4080	It is now a common perception that the Internet is this amazing tool for accessing information and performing simple tasks such as chatting, emailing, booking tickets, shopping, managing accounts, etc.
4081	It is now as if an ‘echo box’ in society at large is beginning to balance out the ‘black box’ of insider elite politics.
4082	It is now expected that both projects will play a crucial role in reaching this goal.
4083	It is no wonder then that this conference has emerged as the premier nanotechnology research and business event in India.
4084	It is now one of the UKs top business schools, with an impressive track record in both research and teaching.
4085	It is now the good time to design and test these solutions: as the energy prices will grow up in the coming years, and energy peak creates a higher cost and environmental impact, we should invent new ways how to combine smart working and smart energy.
4086	It is only few days since I returned from my long trip to the North of Greece to attend the International Seeds Exchange Festival of Peliti (see also my previous blog) and I still feel this magic euphoric feeling that was created there.
4087	It is organized into eight faculties that accomplish the three central missions of the University: education, research and service to community.
4088	It is possible to operate at low acceleration voltage and low vacuum maintaining an high spatial resolution.
4089	It is precisely because the efforts that are being asked by the current political leadership across Europe do not fulfil those criteria that they are increasingly rejected by our peoples.
4090	It is quite interesting that the results from the bot tests were very similar to real armor penetration tables.
4091	It is really interesting, because the people are different and the songs are very different.
4092	It is recommended that graves disease patients must eat a lot of vegetables, some fruits, in addition to chicken, turkey, and particular sorts of fish.
4093	It is recommended to provide maximum rates for certain services (e.g. fees of speakers/ moderators).
4094	It is referred to as the "where" system.
4095	It is relevant to those working or training in public health, health promotion, road or home safety, injury prevention research, environmental health and other areas of injury and accident prevention.
4096	It is significant at an international level as the building of these castles and fortresses can be examined from the end of prehistorical times to the beginning of the 19th century.
4097	It is situated in the German Alps approx.
4098	It is still a bleak picture for human rights in China.
4099	It is strongly encouraged to inform us of your intention to submit a paper early September.
4100	It is structured with various degrees of specificity for use at the different levels of the health systems, and uses a common accepted terminology in order to permit comparison of data between countries and services.
4101	It is the 10th edition of the EU Sustainable Energy Week!
4102	It is the first ever European Year to deal with the European Union’s external action and Europe’s role in the world.
4103	It is the historically cyclically repeated, evolvement of the condition where some prevail, against those that have been supporting them until then.
4104	It is the institutional home for all the linguistic research carried out within the Arts Faculty.
4105	It is the most widely prescribed gonadotropin in the world.
4106	It is then up to national governments to reach out to their publics to explain the results of this debate on needs and means.
4107	It is the only major programme in the EU’s budget for the next seven years whose resources will increase, and in real terms it’s nearly 30 % bigger than the previous research funding round, the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7).
4108	It is therefore easy to understand that shale gas extraction is seen as a silver bullet by the Lithuanian government.
4109	It is therefore essential that the political initiators of the SEPA process create the incentives needed to communicate its objectives and to facilitate the migration to the new SEPA instruments for bank customers.
4110	It is therefore logical that for the first time in the history of our relations, we, European Union and China, count on our cities, provinces and regions to be the leading players in this partnership.
4111	It is therefore no coincidence that in recent weeks the anti-European parties have found fertile ground for their campaigns against the euro and against any step forward in the European integration.
4112	It is therefore vital that they are aware of all the potential uses within the supply chain before preparing their application.
4113	It is this complexity of potential underlying assumptions and the corresponding complexity of conceptual frameworks regarding the use of force that complicates the application of law to the issue of aggression.
4114	It is this open participation, which accounts for the strength of European standardization.
4115	It is thus a global challenge demanding a global solution.
4116	It is true that in Croatia, too, this was accompanied by doubts of corruption but Croatia is the first country in South-Eastern Europe where a former prime minister has been sent to prison for corruption.
4117	It is urgent to stop these austerity policies and measures.
4118	It is vital in these challenging times that we tackle hatred and extremism in all its forms by building respect for difference and unity in the face of these threats.
4119	It is with apprehension that we take note of the reported disturbing trends in Burundi; not only of severe restrictions of the right to freedom of expression, association and assembly, but also of prevalent impunity due to a dysfunctional justice sector.
4120	It is world-famous for its jewelry and watch-making industry.
4121	It is worth noting that the students worked in association with the University Hassan II at Casablanca and that Kalimât stood out among more than 30 students'projects of écoles d'ingénieur to obtain this 5 000€ prize!
4122	It just rolled over everything since then, right to the present time.
4123	It kicks out good people from the competition with the specific profile of the competition.
4124	It knocks them out of action.
4125	It literally attracts the psychopath into the game, and he plays for keeps and he plays to win, and he’s utterly, utterly ruthless.
4126	It looks at how to balance sustainable production practices and market demands within a changing policy environment.
4127	It looks at the financial challenges facing healthcare today and likely trends in healthcare development to 2030.
4128	It looks daunting at over 500 pages but it ncert books for ias preparation pdf pure pleasure to both read and discuss.
4129	It makes sense to trust these items which will encase the feet perfectly and also make them feel relaxed and very comfortable.
4130	It makes you kind of pacified.
4131	It may be employed in several rifles as well as handguns too, rendering it ideal for various other uses.
4132	It may be transferred within Belgium by decision of the General Assembly, described hereinafter, and published within one month as from the date the decision was taken in the annexes of the Belgian Official Journal.
4133	It may lead toan incomplete understanding of the entity of this pathology andcan be underdiagnosed becouse this condition likely occurs withgreater frequency.
4134	It may lead to assign a proper portion of taxes to engage scientists on the basic research about the sexual pleasure, which will lead to founding the complex sexuarium.
4135	It means that the benefits of the use of ionising radiation must be greater than the harm caused by it.
4136	It means that the EU has recognized that agreed tasks to move forward in the process have been achieved.
4137	It means that we, citizens of the world, are increasingly exposed to risk situations.
4138	It might even be harder for countries instead of states or regions.
4139	It might, for example, give their higher education institutions a minimum-maximum range for the grants in case co-financing is available in only some regions or institutions.
4140	It must be a full examination of how we do our business, including everything from how much we pay ourselves to our work practices, from our content to our ongoing contact with our audience.
4141	It must be secured that Macedonian citizens can completely and without any danger exercise their basic right of freedom of expression and assembly.
4142	It needs investors who are open to the idea of efficiency and interested in getting energy problems involved early in the process.’
4143	It never dawns on the guys below, that are always opposing the big oil companies, why would the big guys be promoting the same thing you’re opposing?
4144	It offers a powerful combination of experienced personnel and the backing of it’s network companies supported by modern hard- and software.
4145	It offers a unique opportunity for academic researchers and industry practitioners to report on groundbreaking research work and to present industrial trends in service oriented computing.
4146	It offers the way for businesses of all sizes to create a prestigious image.
4147	It only had to track 20% of what it had been tracking.
4148	It only took a decade for the same tactics of warfare that were previously restricted to foreign countries to now being applied domestically.
4149	It outlines further measures to be taken to improve participation and guarantee the enforcement of EU citizens’ rights, including efforts to improve the current mechanism for preventing double voting.
4150	It particularly emphasises the importance of ensuring a (.
4151	It pleased www.southern-charms3.com kimber private members.htm imagination effort and make it and continued to pace.
4152	It pointed out that the Treaty only becomes legally binding to Sweden the day Sweden introduces the euro as a currency or declares itself bound by the Treaty rules.
4153	It premiered in the US in 2002, and in Canada in 2003 and ended in May 2005 as it was slated for non-renewal by PAX TV.
4154	It presents new opportunities, outstanding quality, reasonable performance and convenient operation.
4155	It promotes studies in collaboration with research institutes, universities and cultural institutions to develop knowledge on landscapes in different disciplines and functions.
4156	It provides a structure for the process, and information about potentials and opportunities.
4157	It provides definitive and up to date data from the authoritative source and is made available nationally.
4158	It provides easy access to all materials and resources that have been produced on the validation of non-formal and informal learning in European countries.
4159	It provides education, research and collaborative opportunities with other research institutions (like the Energy Institute of TUBİTAK, and UNIDO-Ichet) and with state agencies on studies aimed at solutions of energy problems.
4160	It provides KRIs for a spe- cific firm and compares those with various peer groups, both predetermined and user- defined.
4161	It provides transparency on the creators pathways ie. all structures have access to the creators pathway within the network, thus enhancing the efficiency of the support.
4162	It recounts the books, people, ideas, experiences, research and even the films, music and sport, that feed his boundless curiosity about the world.'
4163	It reminded me of our former meetings of the Socialist Alliance or Workers’ self-management in the former Yugoslavia.
4164	It represented an excellent networking opportunity with a less commercial focus than a trade fair and a less technical scope than a scientific conference.
4165	It represents clients in all major personal injury cases.
4166	It requires a more holistic approach of ”Strategic Public Management” (Steurer, 2007) that reforms the functioning of the public sector in more fundamental ways.
4167	I tried to do this but in some questions we did have to make assumptions to choose an answer.
4168	It’s a beautiful way to regulate society.
4169	It’s a big, big business.
4170	It’s a bit like a battery being charged by a solar cell.
4171	It’s a cloud-based platform between the administration and its citizens, providing access to all public sector information (open data) through a network of information points such as digital displays.
4172	Its actions to fight for human rights and freedom are wide in scope and it groups together people of great courage, who are ready to sacrifice their lives.
4173	It’s a death spiral.
4174	Its advantages over other immunosuppressants could be the more rapid onset of effect.
4175	It's a fantastic form of mind control to do with guilt-tripping and sin of course and it's been exploited and used by professionals for thousands upon thousands of years.
4176	It’s a great day out and the perfect way to start a weekend of running in Manchester.
4177	It’s a kind of mental energy, a psychic granting to the big boys, that you’re giving yourself over to them so that they can save you.
4178	It’s all fixed.
4179	It's all Masonic, you see.
4180	It’s all over the place.
4181	It's all to do with weighing and measuring and all that kind of stuff in the occult at the top, nothing really mystical about it.
4182	It’s amazing, from cradle to grave you’re given indoctrination by big corporations that also produce educational textbooks; the official ones.
4183	It’s amazing how you can alter everything by OMISSION, isn’t it?
4184	It’s amazing though, I’ve read articles here about people just come down with it.
4185	It's ambition is to host and point to relevant soil data and information at European level.
4186	It’s a new feudal system you see.
4187	It's an oppressive type system.
4188	It's another pun on the same thing and then of course in Parliament in England you have Big Ben.
4189	It’s a preexisting system and your schooling and everything is meant to reinforce the idea that we’re just stumbling along in time, we’re bumbling along like a drunken man down through time dealing with problems as they arise.
4190	It’s a PR thing obviously but they also want to use mood-altering drugs to help bring down re-offending.
4191	It’s a unique venue for companies to promote equipment and technology.
4192	It's a well known fact that Djukanovic has a stake in the second largest bank in the country - Prva Banka along with his brother.
4193	It’s a win-win policy, based on mutual interest and shared values.
4194	It says but the losers will be consumers, as I said.
4195	It says here, Health and safety axe on 800-year-old right to collect firewood (Alan: Well we KNOW that they’re going to make everyone eventually DEPENDENT on the system.
4196	It says here:) "I do think it fits the bill.
4197	It says his doctor..
4198	It says:) In addition, a wide range of companies, consultancy firms, research centres and NGOs have provided various forms of assistance during the preparation of this report.
4199	It says:) You think you understand how the Patriot Act allows the government to spy on its citizens.
4200	It’s bad for advertising.
4201	It’s based on GridFTP and uses tgftp (a tool for benchmarking, testing and data transfers which itself uses globus-url-copy (guc)) and uberftp.
4202	It’s been happening for YEARS in fact.
4203	It’s been here for a long, long time, mainly through the media and your education and all the fiction that you soak up as well.
4204	It's been observed a clear correlation between renewable energy production and marginal price.
4205	It's been on national television.
4206	It's been that way for years now.
4207	Its being caused by a corrupt file in one of the folders where your desktop pictures are coming from.
4208	Its biosynthesis is regulated by two polysialyltransferases.
4209	It’s blowing speakers worldwide and I can’t wait to perform it in front of all my homeyz in Abu Dhabi!
4210	It's called an ice age because you're “in the Ice” Age.
4211	It's called "Simpler".
4212	Its co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin are also on the list of investors at Tesla Motors, makers of the renowned Tesla Roadster.
4213	Its credit rating would be such as to represent a weighted average credit rating of each state’s participation in the scheme.
4214	It’s culture creation.
4215	Its development is the result of a collaboration between Daikin Europe and renowned international product designer yellow design.
4216	It’s done through osmosis, as Jacques Ellul said, and they don’t really think through things.
4217	It’s easy stuff for the boys at the top; it’s automatic in fact.
4218	IT Security for Less than 1 Cent An increasing number of everyday devices such as car keys, smart phones and even medical implants need protection from hackers.
4219	It seemed like every hour another one could see!
4220	It seems that negative conseqences of this phenomenon (negative vision of political activity, lowering language norms and the level of public debate) outweight the positive ones (freedom of speech and debate, prompt formation of dissenting groups).
4221	Its efficiency derives from a combination of high solar ab- sorption and reduced thermal loss.
4222	It’s even higher to do what I’m doing here.
4223	It’s few and far between, honestly.
4224	It’s from the CBC Canada.
4225	Its goal is to foster and support communication among researchers, practitioners, and students.
4226	It’s got to come from the supermarket.
4227	It shall also show the many benefits of implementing RINA in a cloud computing environment, which include, bounding router table size, allowing mobility and multicast to scale, and highlight better security and data management.
4228	It shall respect its rich cultural and linguistic diversity, and shall ensure that Europe’s cultural heritage is safeguarded and enhanced.
4229	It’s hard to say.
4230	It should be banned from any institution at any level.
4231	It should be of interest to all pilots, regardless of the type of aircraft they fly.
4232	It should lead to the development of biomarkers and in the future personalised medicine.
4233	Its international character is reflected in its student population, which comprises 24,500 students from over 120 different countries worldwide.
4234	Its jury awards prizes in the international competition and the segment ConScience as well as in the national competition.
4235	It’s just business.”
4236	It’s just more power.
4237	It’s just really unbelievable the mind control the TV’s have on the American public.
4238	It’s learning ability.
4239	It's like Albert Pike said, "We never start a premature revolution."
4240	It’s like Israel saying they’re not helping the rebels.
4241	It’s like marking you with an X or something.
4242	It's like Orwell said, "the hardest thing is holding on to your humanity," and yet it's vital so that we can come through and teach people as to what happened and how we got to that awful stage.
4243	It's like they're telling us nothing but trivia.
4244	Its main core is based on scientific issues with the aim to raise the interest for Sciences, but also to the significance of life.
4245	Its main objective is knowledge management, project management as well as research and innovation in the field of the biomedical sciences.
4246	Its main objective is to decide on the HOTREC long-term strategy and actions on several legislative and non-legislative issues related to sustainability, such as ecological labels, as well as to revise HOTREC positions in the area so far.
4247	Its main objectives are the transparency and quality of policy decision making.
4248	Its mission is to provide a continuous education of highly qualified professional, by offering high quality programs in business and economics.
4249	Its mission is to support and promote innovation, quality and sustainability issues in the daily practice of housing cooperatives.
4250	It's nice to see that some people still understand how to write a quality post!
4251	It’s no different from the rags you get at the supermarket, at the checkout counter.
4252	It’s not a rolling stone type roughness.
4253	It’s not difficult to understand, this is strategy.
4254	It's not mob rule.
4255	It's not that there was the old, analog world -- and then there was an earthquake -- and then we built the new, digital world.
4256	It’s not time, right away now, it’s not time to get everybody fighting them so they’ve been very selective.
4257	Its novelty is that the component clusters serve educational purposes during the day and are connected to the ClusterGrid during nights and weekends.
4258	It's now to a point that smartphone saturation among teens and young adults in the US is nearly complete.
4259	It's our mission to enable you discover the appropriate quadcopter that meets your requires.
4260	It's our standing commitment to fill those needs.
4261	It’s patented and the military’s got ahold of it.
4262	Its practical dimension is evident from its very title – it is a school, but ReSPA is actually much more than that.
4263	Its president, Albert Erskine, who had put all his cards on the table with luxury cars, couldn’t adjust the company to the altered market’s new realities.
4264	It’s rationing of everything.
4265	It's really kind of common knowledge a person studies or has lived some years.
4266	It's so clever.
4267	It’s so close to Hinduistic beliefs because they believe in waves and theosophy - that heavily borrowed from it - talks about the ‘waves of theosophy.’
4268	Its staff of more than 1,750 people includes over 500 industrial residents and guest researchers.
4269	It started with a modest scientific institution with five biologists in a small castle near Hasselt.
4270	It stated that it was prepared to carry out a complete analysis of the documents in question, and review the sum originally claimed in its recovery order.
4271	It states: “From Monday, December 10, to Friday, December 21, pupils who have not brought money to pay for meals will have to wait until the end of service..
4272	It's the field with less applicants..
4273	It’s the first time in history.
4274	It's the Hegelian Dialectic: to change the world, you've got to have an enemy.
4275	It's the hidden god of the system of this world.
4276	Its thermal effect is a major cause of serious injury.
4277	It’s the same with major media.
4278	It’s the same with the Health Services.
4279	Its time to call it a day..
4280	It's time to get the show on the road!
4281	It’s time to take one step closer to the circular economy.
4282	It’s to make you poor, you see.
4283	It stressed its commitment to good administration and informed the Ombudsman that it had taken good note of his remark in this particular case.
4284	It’s true what Adolf Hitler said and he had expert tuition, Adolf Hitler.
4285	It supports operational police coordination through meetings of Directors General of Police, Custom and Security Services.
4286	It's useful when you want to have a ``single-click'' calendar -- just call this in your onSelect handler, if a date was clicked.
4287	It’s very much the same in the United States because the US really has the same system as Britain and elsewhere.
4288	It’s XXI’s century slavery Jason Cotterill-Attaway April 26th, 2015 Yet the EU have them themselves?
4289	It’s, you know, incredible.
4290	It’s your present life and it goes into the subconscious, then what they call the great unconscious while you’re sleeping, this mass of knowledge of all kinds stored back there, and it gets mushed around and so on and you get these dreams.
4291	It takes care of all aspects like adding, updating, removing, starting, stopping of harvesting nodes.
4292	It turned out that those 5 guns, if auctioned off, would have paid off his mortgage and a fistful of vehicle payments as well.
4293	It turns out is might well be a bit of a myth.
4294	“It usually starts with “polishing the language”, buying drinks and ends somewhere in a hotel – reports a 30-year old Kiev resident Tetiana.
4295	It wants to crack down on farm dust – no kidding – as a hazard to people’s health.
4296	It wants to encourage consumers to buy products coloured within the European Union.
4297	It was agreed that the maximum number of participants in a meeting shall not exceed 30; the number of participants per project could therefore be limited whenever needed.
4298	It was agreed to produce “Sectorial Reference documents” about the specific circumstances and environmental potential of the different EMAS target groups.
4299	It was all PREPLANNED.
4300	It was an executive at Northrop Grumman, asking if he was interested in working for the manufacturer of the B-2 stealth bomber as a paid consultant.
4301	It was built on the hill of Toompea, from the German “Domberg”, literally meaning “Dome hill”.
4302	It was clear to President Lula and to a growing number of others that the world has changed enormously since 1992, when the world..
4303	It was designed that way and unfortunately, like always, it hides a higher truth – the real higher system, which few get a chance to attain.
4304	It was equally fascinating to observe first hand discussions on human rights, particularly rights such as privacy, which appear to me to be conducted with greater frequency than in Europe.
4305	It was heated up to a higher temperature under higher energy consumption (both a heat pump and a solar thermal system feature worse efficiency for higher temperatures).
4306	It was initiated by the “Faculté Polytechnique de Mons” and “Université Catholique de Louvain” under initiatives supported by the EC and the Walloon Region.
4307	It was like a battlefield.
4308	It was organized by ENoP with the input of the ENoP working group “Citizenship” in the framework of the EU 2013 Year of the European Citizen.
4309	It was presented two years ago, and since then it was proven to fulfill all expectations raised, regarding level of tissue differentiation.
4310	It was set up by the Council on Foreign Relations and Royal Institute of International Affairs with the help of the big banking boys… to bring in all of this stuff, including your financial chaos and the reorganizing of it all.
4311	It was shown that in one case the PM10 limit and future limits for nitrogen dioxide has been exceeded.
4312	It was so unusual at that time.
4313	It was stressed that specific services cannot simply be provided for the project’s duration but need to be guaranteed after it comes to a close.
4314	"It was team work that helped us win.
4315	It was the last thing he signed before he left office, so we’re not to know, never to know what had really been going on.
4316	It was the sixth one that he was looking for.
4317	It was to blend a Sovietized system with the West.
4318	It was unveiled on 18 November 1935 and financed entirely from public donations.
4319	It was used in ancient Greece, in fact, by the philosophers.
4320	It will also contribute significantly to WP5 (Conceptualisation, results integration and strategies for decision making) and will participate in the optimization of new indoor solutions.
4321	It will also look to increase local and international support for preserving cultural heritage of humanity.
4322	It will be controlled in other words, because the biggest sites out there are in to the young and it's to tantalize and fascinate them and also to put ideas in their heads towards this new system that's coming in.
4323	It will be implemented 20 days after publication in the official journal.
4324	It will be organised in the framework of the Global Innovation Day and it seeks to promote one-to-one connections between exploitable R&D results and Basque companies.
4325	It will be published in the USA by Palgrave Macmillan in June under the title The Divorce of Henry VIII: The Untold Story from Inside the Vatican.
4326	It will be structured as a GS1 offer to answer this new regulation challenges: implementing GS1 standards in order to get compliant with the EU law.
4327	It will be the flagship building and the place of coordination, management and welcoming of the Plaine Images site.
4328	It will consider issues of demographic and geographic contexts of the heritage in larger society and smaller communities, audience development and accessibility to the public, fundraising and management of the buildings.
4329	"It will cross our country from east to west, and the South American continent."
4330	It will discuss the role of local governments in the post 2015 sustainable development goals agenda.
4331	It will enable the efficient use of freight trains and one hour less journey time for rail passengers.
4332	It will enrich the appliance with required logic, which will perform the commands of the control unit and send the state of the appliance to the control unit.
4333	It will happen both with physical meetings, by using effective brainstorming and consensus meeting procedures, as well as wider consultations with the open community based on Internet-based communication means.
4334	It will help to set up synergy effects between these projects and to transfer, disseminate, evaluate and possibly improve the existing approaches and tools.
4335	It will incorporate live performances and activities centered on the musical and cultural phenomenon known as Motown.
4336	It will mean that this region will become far less dependent on Russian gas.
4337	It will not be used for any unsolicited mailing not related to the ESDN.
4338	It will take place at the Austrian National Library, in Vienna on 4-5 October 2011.
4339	It will thus contribute to showcasing European research in the field, and position it within the multiplicity of related initiatives supported in other regions of the world.
4340	It won't be enough to stop there because they're going to go an awful lot further, an awful lot further.
4341	It would allow residential customers to monitor their own power quality.
4342	It would be a mistake to limit our economic discussion to competitiveness and fiscal deficits.
4343	It would be encouraged by the adoption of some of the reforms which are currently suggested by the British authorities and which would help them to convince the British people in case of a referendum.
4344	It would be wonderful if also non-Europeans could do the same.
4345	It would like to reduce the number of recipient countries, notably highlighting the respect of Human Rights.
4346	It wouldn’t do any harm.
4347	It would still put players in same rounds with others.
4348	It would take years to prepare the public to accept it.
4349	I understood that TAFTA will enable EU to import gas from US, thus may reduce the Russian gas import.
4350	I used to go around to graveyards when I was small – it was the most peaceful place there was – and read the different inscriptions.
4351	Ivan Generalić, who is considered the founder of the Hlebine School, was just a child when he was noticed by another great Croatian painter, Krsto Hegedušić, in 1930.
4352	I've always thought that Swedish is a wonderful language because it has so much musicality and sound to it.
4353	I’ve been documenting now, for over forty years, the deliberate introduction of invasive weed species into farmland that puts an immense burden on the farmers.
4354	I've been playing around with using article indexes to provide some extra fodder to my sites. its duplicate content I don't know if it'll bring down the PageRank for the entire site.
4355	I’ve been telling you that eventually you’ll get rations and ration cards.
4356	I’ve been working on energy conservation and power supply issues since 1980.
4357	I've got to stop you though.
4358	I’ve read the articles on the air here where they’re bringing out the debates to get you used to it.
4359	I've tried "ping"ing and everything looks fine.
4360	I want to find another Master programme View 226 other online Masters in Management & Organisation in United Kingdom We Are Helping Thousands of Students to Find a University Abroad!
4361	I want to get you back up for a full two hours in the next few weeks, Alan Watt.
4362	I want to know what are the reasons in different countries because, as we say, we have to exchange best practices and at the same time we need to understand that there are individual characteristics in different member states.
4363	I want to respond to this economic imperative.
4364	I want to stress one thing up front: I am very much convinced that the SSM would gain a lot from having a strong SRM standing by its side.
4365	I was born in one, a one-room apartment with four people living in the room; and that was long after World War II.
4366	I was like, I have a tiny little thing, you know, that I’m doing for the alt media, and somehow or another, it’s attracted attention of the United States State Department.
4367	I was made similar topic months ago but still doesn't work fine.
4368	I was on other broadcasts as a guest.
4369	I was ready to move on and fi nd a new challenge.
4370	I was thinking this could be added to the eu.
4371	I went through this very carefully before I got involved in it and it doesn’t conflict with anything I do.’
4372	I will examine individual prey responses and the emerging patterns across five food-chains that represent phylogenetically distant taxa and disparate ecosystems.
4373	I will not repeat here what I wrote already in favour of such a tax, but more generally.
4374	I will outline the plans for something similar, and hopefully bigger collaboration, under the next EU framework program for research and innovation.
4375	I wish my country would leave the EU and have the same position of Turkey.
4376	“I wish one day I will be President,” said one woman, a refugee.
4377	I wish to pay tribute here to the Serbian leadership for their vision and courage.
4378	I wonder if he is right about the pace and the stage of the events – the movement seems weak and the repression seems strong.
4379	I wonder if people really know the society they’re living under.
4380	I worked on pyrthroids resistance for my PhD in Canada and considering the wide research on insect control there must be an answer.
4381	I would also like to hear Cataluna's opinion on that.
4382	I would describe myself extremely patient when it comes to the education and care of children.
4383	"I would like to congratulate the Chairs of these intergroups, MEPs Karas, Olbrycht and Riquet, for their success and assure them of FIEC’s active collaboration and support!” said FIEC President Johan Willemen, following the publication of the list.
4384	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Duke of Arenberg and the Arenberg Foundation for funding this prize, and others like it, and promoting cultural exchange in Europe.
4385	I would like to thank the Technology Strategy Board for their assistance in making this happen.”
4386	I would not say that people who describe other parts of a market-radical horrors like Steve rightly does should be thrown out from discussions, but it should be clear that Greece faces since years exactly what Elenits describes.
4387	I wouldn't have minded the odd prototype plane here and there but I already pointed out at least 2 big blunders in this "official" tree.
4388	I would really welcome some expert independent opinion on these issues.
4389	I would say some sort of stop lines only agreed to be 50 ralph lauren shirts uk feet greater.
4390	I wrote to Yale citing a rumor I'd heard that first sons of Yales could attend that university tuition free, and received a reply from New Haven in faraway Connecticut stating that no one there had ever heard of such a provision.
4391	Jackie: And how many miles did he say this guard rail went?
4392	Jackie: And then once they weren’t mandatory anymore, there were no more outbreaks.
4393	Jackie: Oh, wow, I didn’t know that.
4394	Jackie: You mean by outer means, by somebody else doing it.
4395	Jacques Ellul touched on that in one of his books as well.
4396	Jalios has been created in December 2001.
4397	Jandova 135/2, Praha (Prague 9-Vysočany) We offer life and health insurance.
4398	Jan Kopkáš (Post author)May 29, 2013 at 15:40 are you asking if you should register with the Foreign police (Cizinecká policie)?
4399	January 2006 The Quality Review of Documents group (QRD) was established in June 1996 and operates under the mandate adopted by the EMA Management Board on 3 December 1997.
4400	Jaroslav Holomek Bridging the gap between science and practice The relation between police research, police training and police practice was regarded as problematic.
4401	Jason on July 25, 2011 at 12:38 said: This is the problem of internal devaluation compared to external devaluation.
4402	Jatropha oil is not edible; it is used in medicine and as the fuel.
4403	Javier Santamaría explains the rationale for the development of this new optional scheme which is envisaged to go live in November 2010.
4404	JA-YE Supporting Partner of EBS We are glad to announce that JA-YE is a supporting partner of EBS 2015.
4405	JCGO, a Java source to C code translator, is the flagship software product developed, licensed and supported by the company.
4406	J.Dijsselbloem will later join the Euro Summit, which takes place on the same day at 18.00.
4407	Jean-Dominique Giuliani, Chairman of the Foundation, was guest to Christine Ockrent on the programme "Affaires étrangères" on France Culture on 2nd May on the UK general election.
4408	Jeffery Hasson is an experienced personal injury and defense attorney in New Jersey.
4409	JEL Classification:E31, E51, H63 Keywords: public indebtedness, inflation, money supply, debt amortization.
4410	Jidong Zhou is an Assistant Professor of Economics at NYU Stern School of Business.
4411	Jim: Now getting back to when we were talking about eugenics programs and perfection.
4412	Jiřina Pávková, stomatolog Company log in: Email: Password: Companies Znojmo - Company catalogue Company catalogue Companies Znojmo Operates Advertising Media s.r.o. Company catalogue Companies Znojmo is a member of local company catalogue Firmy Česko.
4413	Jive Forums: jive.vid : This cookie is given to anonymous users of Citizens' Agora forums so that one anonymous user can be distinguished from another.
4414	Joan has managed the Irish input to a number of EU projects including Activate,MINERVA, MinervaPlus, MinervaEC, EuropeanaLocal and Linked Heritage.
4415	Joanneum Research is one of the largest non-university research institutions in Austria.
4416	João Veloso on January 31, 2015 at 01:35 said: I am Portuguese, I am working in Brasil as civil engineer because European crisis and I will do my best to support your politics.
4417	Job steps that have requested to run in a non-existent reservation.
4418	Johan Linden, General Secretary CIRCOM 15:00 - 16:00 Who is watching us, Where and How?
4419	John Decamp certainly did a good expose on this.
4420	John Smith October 27th, 2013 You seem to care a lot about these two countries which apparently no one cares about.
4421	John Suffolk speaking at the Seoul Conference on Cyberspace 2013 on Oct. 17 Speaking in a panel discussion at the Seoul Conference on Cyberspace 2013 yesterday, Mr.
4422	John - summer concerts at Prague Castle Dr.
4423	John: Well, generally speaking, we provide all the services and the radio outlets.
4424	John Zervas May 16th, 2015 Here is the thing, EU may want Turkey (it doesn’t ’cause France and Germany will lose voting supremacy if Turkey enters the Union) but Turkey does not want to be an EU member.
4425	Joining forces and resources in research will make us more efficient."
4426	Join The International NanoScience Community Full memberKatya Marinova Simeonova said… I would like to congratulate all of you.
4427	Joint Programme Initiative on Antimicrobial Resistance Viewing post categorized under: Research News Report on the global state of antiobiotic resistance.
4428	Join us to give your Karriere a good push!
4429	Join Utility Warehouse Discount Club for Business for massive savings on all your business bills.
4430	Jonathan Cave, Agreeing to Disagree About Privacy: Markets as Privacy, Identity and Trust Mechanisms.
4431	Joomla gallery by joomlashine.com The evolution of technology really does follow the pattern of natural evolution quite closely.
4432	José Pablo Martínez, Research Assistant on the ITHACA project at the Real Instituto Elcano, has a degree on Economics from Universidad de Murcia (2002-2008) and a master´s degree on International Economics from Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (2011-2013).
4433	Josh Rogin: Russian ‘Blackwater’ Takes Over Ukraine Airport (Daily Beast) The troops who have taken over two airports in Crimea are not Russian military, but they could be security contractors working for the Russian military, and they are there to stay.
4434	Journal of Early Childhood Research, 8, 282–293.
4435	Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 76, 367-376.
4436	JPI Oceans was invited to discuss tools for implementing Blue Growth.
4437	JP Vodovod-Kanalizacija d.o.o. annually sells 25 Mm3 of drinking water and discharges and treats approximately the same amount of sewage water.
4438	J.R.: It’s certainly a very nice idea, if a bit futuristic.
4439	J. Ubelmesser, S.J. “A Word about the Artist” in Liberation in Luke’s Gospel, p. 6. 4. Now We Are Free, The Lutheran Church of St.
4440	Jude Children’s Research Hospital, in the United State as a Fulbright fellow where he studied therapies targeting signal transduction pathways.
4441	Judges noted that the service is "potentially important for the entire telecom industry," especially since "NTT Com is ahead of the game."
4442	Judit Sándor is a professor at the Faculty of Political Science, Legal Studies and Gender Studies of the Central European University (CEU), Budapest.
4443	JUDY DEMPSEY: Okay, good afternoon, everybody, and thank you very much for phoning in two days before the Riga summit.
4444	Jump over another peg and remove it.
4445	Jurgita Peciuriene wrote: I would like to add that in 2015 EIGE plans to launch a study on methodologies used in Members States fpor collection of data on gender-based violence.
4446	Just a little, though, and only as it relates to Making Things Pretty.
4447	Just as bad things, if not worse… I would say WORSE are going on inside the US.
4448	Just call their bluff and see the bastards poop their pants.
4449	Just like today, they pick the CIA and all the other secret services from school.
4450	Just think of the exploding internet penetration rates throughout the recent decades, dizzying stock prices during the new economy or the number of weblogs counted by Technorati.
4451	Just two and half months left until the main European Ambient Assisted Living event this year takes place in Norrköping, Sweden.
4452	Just wanted to say thanks, for your quick response, fast delivery and the fact that the beads are gorgeous, they will be perfect!
4453	Kakadu is known for both its cultural heritage and its natural features.
4454	Kamil Koniuszewski, Respect Balticum "I support efforts to popularise the Pomeranian Way of St James.
4455	Katerina: Or, I can see him under supervision, which costs tens upon tens upon tens of thousands of dollars, which a lot of parents have contacted me, and that’s what happens… “Pay up… Pay up… and you may see them.”
4456	Katherine Strandburg, New York University School of Law, US Katherine Strandburg is Professor of Law at New York University School of Law.
4457	Kathrin Mendler: The trial cultivation in Oberboihingen was hands-on science.
4458	Kathy has worked in three different continents as a public health nutritionist, teacher and dietitian.
4459	KATINKA BARYSCH: Eurobarometer, the sociological agency of the European union makes its researches throughout Europe, but I do not have the specific data for Bulgaria.
4460	Katz and his team have stated that they intend to try a similar process with lobsters in the near future.
4461	Kaushik Basu (Cornell University) is the current president of the HDCA.
4462	Kavalyou and Kanavalau where executed within four months.
4463	KB&B (Inside large clover outline) Inner-Tube (like Dunhill of same era) This pipe with a rare blue clover logo is contemporary of the early Kaywoodies.
4464	Keeping pace with change and demand But why has providing information electronically had such a positive effect on the organisation?
4465	Keep the stickmen from esca.
4466	Keep up to date with the project's research results including deliverables, publications, software, technical reports, presentations and posters.
4467	Keep your answer simple, direct and positive.
4468	KEK 2020 - Administration sets examples!
4469	Keller argues that European democracy has been advanced, and that after weeks of agitation, not least by the United Kingdom’s Prime Minister David Cameron, Juncker has positioned himself well.
4470	Kenya Education Network (KENET) and TENET have also successfully implemented eduroam in Kenya and South Africa respectively.
4471	Keress pénzt kérdőívek kitöltésével Don`t you know what I could do to make you feel alright?
4472	Kernel D consists of the core matrix-vector multiplication routine for standard Wilson fermions.
4473	Kevin: Yeah and when I lived up in Iroquois Falls it was starting to get really bad up there too.
4474	Key competencies are foresight, monitoring, policy evaluations and impact assessment, business modelling, user studies, and market analysis.
4475	Key Information in this Article SEPA has been dominating the life of so many people for nearly 14 years, but come 1 August 2014, all those years of hard work will be realised when it comes into operation.
4476	Key instruments in the EU’s trade relations with Africa are the Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) the EU has been negotiating with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) region countries.
4477	Key people will be engaged to buy into and own the knowledge that has been generated, and be part of moving the agenda forward, and leading change and advocating this in their constituencies.
4478	Keyword(s): health problems of seafarers, maritime industry factors, lifestyle habits.
4479	Keyword(s): second primary neoplasms, cervical cancer This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License.
4480	Keywords: social responsibility, corporate reputation, investment decisions, Poland.
4481	Kicking off the municipalities’ session, participants were invited to share their needs and expectations.
4482	Kick-off was cancelled due to miserable weather and heavy rainstorm.
4483	KIEKIDS - Development of an innovative paediatric formulation of an antiepileptic agent for the treatment of absence epilepsy in children.
4484	Kill the 0 from the new number (1260 becomes 126).
4485	Kim Zetter (@KimZetter) — Indefatigable Wired reporter covering civil liberties and cybercrime.
4486	Kinds of ideologies were for pressured labour and the circumstances were that terrible many inmates perished with regards to desire for food and infection.
4487	Knowing the reason why you need to deal desi village bhabhi nangi photos an engagement that help you in getting.
4488	Knowledge of food demand systems at a local level is essential to ensure food security.
4489	Knowledge will always be at your fingertips at the University of Hull.
4490	Knowledge will come from public institutions, beneficiaries and EU support service providers.
4491	Kohler has 23 years of experience in Banking, Finance, ICT audit and IT & Information Risk Control.
4492	Konica Minolta wins BLI’s coveted "MFP Line of the Year" Award Langenhagen, Germany, January 2011 Konica Minolta has won the Buyers Lab Inc.
4493	Konnektid have realized that by connecting with neighbors, the opportunities for learning new skills are endless.
4494	Konstantine Galiotos, Advisor to the Head of the Region of Peloponnese for Sustainable Development, Civil Engineer (M.
4495	Konstantinos on May 22, 2013 at 15:44 said: Thank God for your candor (i.e. Cojones) and insight Mr.
4496	Korunní 1172/81, Praha (Prague 3-Vinohrady) We offer golf needs in local stores, an extensive golf shop and e-on test days throughout the Republic.
4497	KOSGEB’s operations include the operation of public incubation centres and joint use technology service centres.
4498	KPMG member firms can be found in 155 countries.
4499	Krištofova 1, Ostrava - Radvanice Production of hot rolled seamless steel pipes with outer diameter of 60.3 to 406.4 mm and wall thickness 6,3-65 mm of carbon and alloy steels.
4500	Kurds are also demanding more devolution of powers to local authorities so that they can enjoy greater freedoms in several policy areas, including education, health, and social policies.
4501	Kurino, Morimitsu (2014): House allocation with overlapping generations.
4502	Labelling country of origin is already mandatory for fresh meat.
4503	Labelling nutritional info and the full list of ingredients should be mandatory to help consumers know what and how much to drink.
4504	Lambic is now mainly consumed after refermentation, resulting in derived beers such as Geuze or Kriek.
4505	Land is the only capital asset on these islands, and their communities are primitive, needing only food and producing only food.
4506	LAPromovers provides excellent moving and relocation services to people who want to relocate.
4507	Large research organisations are underrepresented in the region and higher education institutions account for about 80% of public R&D.
4508	Larry knew influential people and could have had their sponsorship had he wanted to enter the world of business.
4509	Last, but not least, all of these have been (or will be) issues addressed in articles published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research.
4510	Last but not least is working inthe private sector, for think-tanks such as the European Policy Center or others that search and research EU, Asia relations etc.
4511	Last June however, only 45% of the electorate went to ballot to elect their MEP's, slightly lower than the Community average.
4512	Lastly, he addresses how to defend yourself from persuasion techniques that wish to harm you rather than ethically convince you (scammers, people selling faulty products knowingly, disingenuous attempt to persuade, etc.
4513	Lastly, the authors also evaluate overall performance.
4514	Lastly we take part in creating professional reports for governmental and non-governmental institutions.
4515	Last modification :Thursday March 7 2013 230 years of history for the Graduate School. 18 research centres, 286 talented research professors, 1st school for collaborative research, a unique link with companies.
4516	Last-Modified: Thu, 26 Jun 2014 12:33:00 GMT Server: Europa Connection: close EUR-Lex provides free access to European Union law and other documents considered to be public.
4517	Last three indicator ICONO-Eurostat Business enterprise and Government were the main R&D funders in Spain with respectively 46% and 43% of funds provided by these sectors in 2012 (€6,112m and €5,776m respectively) (Graph below pie chart).
4518	Last Updated on Tuesday, 14 January 2014 10:38 Key Policies in The Netherlands A small, mostly low-lying country in north-west Europe, the Netherlands has a total land area of about 42 000 km² and over 16 million inhabitants.
4519	“Last week, this newspaper exposed the "scary" plans for all children to be given a state guardian - or Named Person - who will have the legal right to tell parents how to raise their offspring.”
4520	Laszlo Varnai “Gradually people from this movement recognised the great level of dependency they had on the state, and therefore decided to form a political party.
4521	Later, because he is no longer interested in her as a ‘girlfriend’ and she has found out he has been sleeping with another, she finds the other woman and they plot to have him charged with rape.
4522	Later Lithuanian language was not let into the authorities by foreigners who had divided Lithuanian territory into parts.
4523	Later, when “Solidarność” was created, they started going to Bornholm, to the Danes.
4524	Latest list of errors, updated at most monthly.
4525	Laura is currently coordinating one FP7 funded project (UMBRELLA) and leading two other projects at IES as a consortium partner.
4526	Law and Management Studies program is of applied nature and focused on practical activities.
4527	Law enforcement quoted armstrong considering neglecting to report an injury and moreover driving to fast past his / her ex past old wife, who was arrested, well known scamming to gain your pet.
4528	Layers upon layers upon layers of bureaucrats dealing with everything in your life, from school right up through onwards for the rest of your life.
4529	Lay in tortures for as the detailed version in the cupboard soon.
4530	LCLIP (Local Climate Impacts Profile) is a resource that local authorities can compile so that they better understand their exposure to weather and climate.
4531	Leaders of countries that fought Nazi Germany or were occupied by it should not lend credence to such fabrications.
4532	Leading chipset and receiver manufacturers are already releasing Galileo ready products.
4533	Leading Oxford historian Kenneth O. Morgan (Lord Morgan of Aberdyfi) has warmly welcomed the book, saying that “It deserves a wide readership amongst everyone concerned with the history of modern Wales.”
4534	Leandro is Founder & CEO at WideTag Inc.
4535	Learn how to manage them now.
4536	Learning languages is overrated.
4537	Learning story adventure for your 6 year old children who certainly adore goats.
4538	Learn Japanese in the fastest, Why Study with JapanesePod101.
4539	Learn more about how the pharmaceutical Industry is actively involved in the work of the Agency.
4540	Learn more about this project here.
4541	“Learn with Grandma” is an NGO who aims to promote relationships between grandparents and grandchildren who live near each other as well as those that live far apart.
4542	Leave a Reply to kingvitaman Cancel reply Your email address will not be published.
4543	Leave us your view on what would be your perfect job, together with your CV and will we add your information in our database.
4544	Leave your books here!
4545	“Leaving the shipyard was painful, but now I see it was also necessary.
4546	‘Lectures set the syllabus, but it is through talking with an academic supervisor and peers, and reading and writing, that you make real progress.
4547	Led by the Israeli Yoav Shemer-Kunz, the action aimed at calling the EU to ensure the immediate stop of all military operations and the launching of bombs and rockets against civilians.
4548	Legalizing democratic conditionality helps member states to overcome collective action problems and equips RIOs with the necessary credibility, justification, and tools for intervention in member states’ domestic political affairs.
4549	Legal nature of guarantees is directly connected with the realization of human rights.
4550	Legal representation and assistance is particularly necessary in Portugal when purchasing or selling property.
4551	LEGATO will analyse the potential of ecological engineering to achieve this, and test its implementation and transferability across regions.
4552	Leinen therefore supports the early adoption of very strict targets for after 2020.
4553	Leipzig is a beautiful city and the university is also good.
4554	Lemurs, lorises, tarsiers, monkeys, apes, as well as humans are all primates.
4555	Leo De Cooman February 8th, 2013 @Dan, ik versta met enige inspanning uw taal, maar wens me niet belachelijk maken door ze te gebruiken.
4556	Leo Valdez : Why didn't you just say sex then?
4557	Less blocking With more segments, that means there is more fine grained locking when updating an entry.
4558	Lessons for the South — from Germany.
4559	Less privileged groups present a large part of the entire population, which is increasing every year.
4560	Less than the 7 % of cocaine users entering treatment report injecting as a route of administration.
4561	Let me explain what a democracy is….
4562	Let me just read this for a moment if I might, Alan Watt, and this is fascinating.
4563	Let me raise a final point.
4564	Let out a coin in flight and collect as much as possible p..
4565	Lets ask Soros why the Australian dollar went down.
4566	Let’s be upfront and confront the issues.
4567	Let's not talk about dates before then".
4568	Let the experts handle dealing with flood water because as easy it may sound, it can be very dangerous when you don’t know the first thing about it.
4569	Let them have the American way.
4570	Let them send their children to be slaughtered or become butchers in their own wars.
4571	Let them treat us like adults, we can get by on our own" declared Albin Kurti.
4572	Let us know what you guys think of THAT ASS!
4573	Let us to invite you into one of the largest and most popular billiard game rooms in Prague where you can play billiards in addition to darts games and sit comf..
4574	Let us work together for a stronger, inclusive digital market that allows innovation and investment in the European Union”.
4575	Letzte Aktualisierung ( Monday, 8. June 2009 ) E-learning surveys - Lies, damn lies and statistics.
4576	"Ley" is part of a way or a path and "hux" comes from the old "hex," which is to cast a spell.
4577	LG has stated that they will never support unlocking the bootloader meaning G4 owners on carriers are stuck with the bloatware indefinitely.
4578	Liare, on 09 June 2015 - 10:30 PM, said: that doesn't change the fact that she's at a severe disadvantage at tier 6, unlike the Murmansk vs the Omaha class for example.
4579	LIBER… LIBER Advocates For Text and Data Mining Changes in BrusselsOn November 12, LIBER travelled to Brussels for a special event: Copyright and research and innovation policy.
4580	Licenses for electronic publications (ePubs) Cantebriggia fontsy.
4581	Life expectancy has thus increased.
4582	Lifetime prevalence for males was higher at the start of the time series (17.6 % in 2004) and at the end (18.5 % in 2009; 18 % in 2010; 17.2 % in 2011; 17.5 % in 2012).
4583	LifeWatch V, the world’s first smartphone adapted to health monitoring LifeWatch Tech just released the world’s first smartphone that helps patients to monitor and manage their illnesses.
4584	Light, compliant, silent energy scavengers, they can easily be incorporated into clothing where they could scavenge energy from the human kinetic movements for biomedical applications.
4585	Like a boxer, all these blows that the country has taken has made it groggy and it only lacks the last one to floor it.
4586	Like every process tending to increase quality, this improvement of the system presupposes investments that represent a financial effort for the States’ budgets.
4587	Like in 2012, an expedition to observe the Aurora Borealis from the south of Greenland will take place in the period 24-29 August.
4588	Like its predecessor – the temporary European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) set up in 2010 – the ESM provides financial assistance to euro area Member States experiencing or threatened by financing difficulties.
4589	Like the idea which Joschka Fischer initiated here almost ten years ago and which reached, via Laeken, all the way to Lisbon.
4590	Like you can hear like a humming going around you right now, like everybody is a part of that hive and then you seem to stand out from the hive, so they have a serious problem with that.
4591	Like you don’t have a black page already.
4592	Linked Open Data, Statistics and Recommendations for Live TV More detailed information about intermediate goals will be made available on the web-site throughout the project.
4593	LinkedTV acknowledges the infinite variety of possible use cases of LinkedTV technology.
4594	Links to regional supporting groups in Spain.
4595	Linx you lost the driver CD that was included with your printer.
4596	Listen to an academic course tutor talking about the technologies used by students that she teaches.
4597	Listen to cutting-edge discussions visit was the Deputy viagra viagra for Radio News Hour free viagra the Progressive African Parks Network.
4598	Literally, it’s that’s bad now.
4599	Little attention has been given to address the problem of how municipalities communicate about risks such as climate change.
4600	Little Hugh, less convinced than Peter, closed his eyes and thought intensely of the soft fruit which he loved so much.
4601	Live, life-like 3D imaging is the future for cruise services Technology is now available to improve face-to-face communications over a long distance in real-time using 3D imagery and virtual reality.
4602	Liverpool airport is your gateway to North England.
4603	Live the moment in the comfort and simplicity of our hotel.
4604	Liviu Mocan: Illseed, 2007, makrocarpa wood, height 7 m. Collection of North Shore Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand.
4605	Llegir més Citilab participates in Belgium in the great week on the future of internet The future of internet is here and plays discuss and share strategies for action and criteria for joint work to advance our society.
4606	LO: And what concretely is the added value of territorial transnational cooperation in this field (in contrast to other programmes and initiatives in this field)?
4607	Lobbyists are bent on disproportionate advantage.
4608	• Local authorities in Finland have developed their own strategies and initiatives on SD and have set up the institutional framework.
4609	Local statement by EUMS Heads of Mission to Libya on the assassination of Ms.
4610	Locate a local vet clinic and keep your pet up to date on vaccines and ensure they stay happy and healthy 1800petmeds.com offers Interceptor, the best heartworm medication.
4611	Location: 3rd floor of Students’ Union building on Park Place (Cathays Park Campus) Opening times: Mon-Fri 8am-midnight; Sat-Sun noon-midnight, except mid Jul-mid Sep, when it closes at 10pm.
4612	…lock the whole nation up in prison?
4613	London and Berlin are hostile to the idea, too.
4614	Londoners were nearly twice as likely to feel anxious "a lot of the time" than those elsewhere in the country.
4615	Long drives can be tiring and even a small lapse of attention can increase the risk of an accident, so I particularly like the work that is assists driving by linking to the navigation system.
4616	Look at every official letter that’s sent to you, it’s always in block letters.
4617	‘Looking at the 1990s, there was for instance a big question about whether science and technology would create jobs or would in fact lead to unemployment.
4618	Looking at the results achieved by FISTERA, management has been successful to sail safely between Scylla and Charybdis.
4619	Looking Top doctors in new delhi, India?
4620	Lord Alderdice echoed Dr Mannewitz’s call for liberals to communicate a concise message on economic policy which can be easily adopted by voters.
4621	Lots of peasants, you know the little people who are always kind of happy and they’re out in the forest, you know, making little things to sell to Chinese tourists, made out of, you know, wicker, etc.
4622	Lots shot the first time using this kind of bullet and make use of it now for the previously discussed benefits.
4623	Louis Cardinals the anchors of this team are what make them contenders consistently.
4624	Low-cost Motion Capture technology built for PlayMancer presented in NEM summit 2009 A brand new walkthrough video from the current development thread.
4625	Lowest price assured.
4626	Low prestige, limited professional opportunities and insufficient networking reduce the attractiveness of Russia oriented research and policy making.
4627	Ltd. is a leading player in the global telecom market, and serves most of the world's top 50 operators, along with over one billion users worldwide.
4628	Luc Eekhout represented both EXARC and ICOM Netherlands.
4629	Luckily enough, a giant gas cloud just floated too close to the Sagittarius A* and for the first time ever, we're get to see it in action!
4630	Luckily, most exhibits were found and returned to the museum after the war.
4631	Luckily the legislative procedure has been postponed, which gives room for continued lobbying.
4632	Luckily weather conditions in the North Sea and in the Bay of Biscay were favorable which allowined for valuable training time.
4633	Luc Waterlot, financial systems and interfaces manager at Electrabel GDF Suez Market & Sales, stresses that, last but not least, they have had an excellent response from their customers since the implementation of SDD.
4634	Luc Waterlot stresses: "Any organisation which still needs to adapt systems and operations in line with the SEPA payment schemes and standards must act now at the very latest or risks missing the 1 February 2014 deadline."
4635	Lycra is a shiny material that stood out under the disco lights.
4636	MACC II produces daily analyses and forecasts of atmospheric aerosols, creating an expanding record that starts in January 2003.
4637	Macedonians have always been Greeks and Greeks have always lived in Macedonia.
4638	Macroeconomic fiscal activism was increasingly taken into consideration with scepticism.
4639	Made by Keep the Archipelago Tidy in Finland.
4640	Maggie: I’ve noticed there has been an explosion in cosmetics industry and I wonder if a lot of that doesn’t pertain to kind of covering up the effects of fluorosis.
4641	Mail (will not be published) (required) Personal injury cases fall you to go in of some individuals.
4642	Mail (will not be published) (required) You will keep a 70 gases in 100 up the street leading hurried.
4643	Main conference sessions will span issues such as the legal frameworks on privacy in several countries from the EU and the Balkans, and there will be a discussion on children's privacy on the internet, privacy in the business sector and in the media.
4644	Main: Open Access in Switzerland DRIVER itself is harvesting metadata from four Swiss repositories: Alexandria, ETH E-Collection, InfoScience and Bibliotheque Numberique RERO DOC.
4645	Maintained by : WebMaster Application version : 3.1 Welcome to the database on Food Additives.
4646	Major arranger of syndicated, club, acquisition, and project financing solutions.
4647	"Major concerns" were found at two - including Alexandra Hospital, where failings were so fundamental that it was warned in May that it was breaking the law.
4648	Major dietary patterns and risk of coronary heart disease in middle-aged persons from a Mediterranean country: the EPIC-Spain cohort study Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, School of Medicine.
4649	Majority-rule opinion dynamics with differential latency: A mechanism for self-organized collective decision-making.
4650	Make a change in your community: play the Activate Game from the iCivics website.
4651	Make a complete picture from the smaller pieces of the picture.
4652	Make sure you don’t miss our next events!
4653	Make the Kerbal manual Pocket The rod pocket, or channel at the top of your curtain kerbal manual, varies in width.
4654	Making fresh water out of salt water Our drinking water threatened by the increasing pollution of..
4655	Making labour markets ‘more flexible’ (i.e. cutting wages) does not cure these problems..
4656	Making television programs in cooperation, exchange of programs, implementation of joint events and creation of an internet television homepage.
4657	Malešická 2777/45a, Praha (Prague 3-Žižkov) Supply and installation of Alcatel's PBX, structured cabling, call center, IP PBX Alcatel, dispatching center, recording equipment, telephone wiring.
4658	Malmö was certified as Sweden’s first Fairtrade City in 2006 and this has spurred the city’s organic and fair trade offerings.
4659	Management of development activities in IDEE and IDEZar.
4660	Manage your Intellectual Property in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela Our training actions are both on-site and online activities.
4661	Managing tasks individually and sectorally, however, is most often inefficient and leads to increased workload and weak results.
4662	Manipulation of ‘nationality’ can indeed become an instrument for legalising prejudice against certain forms of identity.
4663	Manufactured with the high quality construction and comfort you know and expect from New Balance’s Flimby factory in the UK, these 577’s feature premium suede and mesh builds in your choice of either kelly green or royal blue, each with accents in black.
4664	Manufacturing traceability automation using features and nc-functions.
4665	Manuscripts must be in English, and spelling should conform to the Oxford English Dictionary.
4666	Many are worried that their employment prospects and their children's schooling will suffer as a result of their relocation.
4667	Many high schools in the country are vulnerable to violence, and students face both social problems and economic difficulties in their own families.
4668	Many nations have made great progress on the strength of technology transfer.
4669	Many of his works are found in the Apostolic Palace of The Vatican.
4670	Many of the events organised by Rodopis are tightly linked to research.
4671	Many of their semi-natural elements, of hedges, ditches, field margins, field-side trees, small woods etc have been removed in the interests of modern agriculture.
4672	Many of them live in precarious conditions in other parts of Nigeria or the neighbouring countries where they have fled.
4673	Many of those who have increased as such of this year that as well as how can also sell policies its way to the Delaware.
4674	Many organisations offer scholarships or grants.
4675	Many partners in the PASE project were very inspired by the strong co-operative models in Italy and Spain.
4676	Many pathways have been described by which chromosomes and whole genomes change during evolution.
4677	Many people tend to take the hard won benefits from the European integration process for granted and fail to appreciate its daily, seemingly mundane, manifestations.
4678	Many people who go with the classic isolationist line do not understand that unfortunately we are not the only players anymore.
4679	Many reforms are still necessary to stabilise Eurozone countries.
4680	Many Smith Islanders can trace their ancestry back 12 generations to the English colonists who settled here in the 17th century.
4681	Many solutions are possible to supply the fund: the pooling of future project bonds, the re-allocation of the loan repayments granted by the ESM or of its financial products, the pooling of national loans designed to finance future investments etc.
4682	Many think that theme parks are similar to amusement parks, which is a partially correct statement.
4683	“Many will perhaps laugh, but I really think that Belgrade should consider the Olympics, the possibility of hosting the world’s best athletes.
4684	Many will suffer for saying no.
4685	Marcel December 4th, 2013 You mean the young people that want to come here to steal more of our jobs and undercut local workers even further?
4686	Marcin Mączka is a PhD student at the Institute of Russian and Eastern European Studies at the Jagiellonian University in Krakow, Poland.
4687	Mare Nostrum has saved over 150,000 people and 330 traffickers have been brought to justice.
4688	Marginal land could be kept in production through environmental payments, thus avoiding abandonment.
4689	Marianne Thyssen's report 'Towards a genuine Economic and Monetary Union' Commission proposal for an integrated banking market with a single banking supervisory system Six-pack?
4690	"Marie Stopes lobbied for “the sterilization of those totally unfit for parenthood to be made an immediate possibility, indeed made compulsory.”
4691	Marine Ecological and Environmental Genomics Summer Course Once again, the summer course on Marine Ecological & Environmental Genomics (9th edition) is organized at the Station Biologique de Roscoff (France) from June 3rd to 14th, 2013.
4692	Mario & Friends TD FLASH - Free Online Games :: All Free Games Click on 'Add to favorites' button below a game to add it to your favorite games list.
4693	Marital agreements are governed by the law applicable to the spouses’ property relations at the time the agreement is concluded (§ 21 Zákona o medzinárodnom práve súkromnom a procesnom (ZMPS) – Act on International Private and Procedural Law).
4694	Mariya Mileva, Sebastian Braun, Wolfgang Lechthaler analyse the effect of training on this problem.
4695	Market actors and institutions start new efforts.
4696	Marketing and Sales Director Metget AB (1998–2000).
4697	Market measures must “provide a genuine safety net, and that is what we have proposed”.
4698	Market players and emerging financing models The main stakeholders in retrofitting projects are public building owners, private building owners, the occupants, energy utility companies and other financing bodies, retrofit providers and governments.
4699	Martha has dropped the title ‘digital inclusion’ in favour of race online 2012 to coincide with the forthcoming London Olympic Games.
4700	Martin on July 26, 2012 at 16:48 said: Tax as percentage of GDP is a matter that is within the authority of the individual country.
4701	Massive conversion of paper documents is planned for the next 5 years, which will speed up the processing time and will contribute to the optimization of number of staff and offices.
4702	Matching the cost of medicines to the value they deliver is clearly a complex and delicate task.
4703	Materials/Methods Stereotactic mammotomy biopsy is a minimally invasive method for the collection of tissue from impalpable changes in the breast which are visible in mammography images and require histopathological diagnosis.
4704	Materials, Physical and Nanosciences COST Action MP1401 Administrative officer of the Action: Data is synchronised once per night.
4705	Mathematical morphology, in particular contour preserving filtering of still images and video sequences, watershed based segmentation, multiscale segmentation, extraction of characteristics, detection of objects or persons, tracking.
4706	Mathilda Karlsson Hagnell talked about “Cost and weight modelling of composite structures within Aeronautical applications”.
4707	Matt Herod August 7, 2014, 6:17 pm Here are the “other” responses so far.
4708	Maurizio attends a school in Milan, where he also attends courses to specialize in industrial design and technology.
4709	Maurizio presented the ETM methodology to the participants.
4710	MaxExplorer is aimed at various categories of users.
4711	Max Kinzl tells about his work as an exposure and risk assessor.
4712	May 18th, 18:00 in Berlin What are innovative approaches for democracy assistance and new forms of inclusive policy dialogue?
4713	May 5, 2014 at 5:45 pm in reply to: Web page crashes Firefox.
4714	Maybe Superman had the right idea.
4715	Maybe they can pin something on us, to say we’ve been immunized.
4716	Maybe your music taste is connected to your clothing style and, of course, much more interesting dependencies can be revealed… But do you really want these interconnections to get smarter?
4717	Maynooth University is the first and only university outside North America to be included in the Princeton Reviews Best Colleges guidebook.
4718	MCS may be treated as one of the services of the AM.
4719	Me and Hdz7 taken 17th February 2015.
4720	Meanwhile, another FP7 project, Suprapower, aims to completely sidestep wind turbines based on the use of permanent magnets by developing a “superconducting, reliable, lightweight and more powerful offshore wind turbine.”
4721	Meanwhile, Medvedev stressed that Russia remains open to dialogue with the US and NATO regarding missile defense issues, but the cooperation must have clear legal parameters.
4722	Meanwhile, Peace Tour has been working for more than ten years on cultural exchanges and peace promotion between China and its Asian neighbours, and recently extended its activities to Europe through ECCEF.
4723	Meanwhile, tax intermediaries widely advertise loopholes, and multinational companies continue to shift profits by trading assets and income between subsidiaries.
4724	Meanwhile, the political crisis in Macedonia is escalating, tensions are rising, discontent is becoming increasingly radicalised and concern over the situation is growing.
4725	Meanwhile, the rest of the Eurozone, whether they return to their own currencies or not, will enter a long period of stagflation as both prices and joblessness shoot up and up.
4726	Meanwhile the various elites, which know no boundaries or nations, are laughing all the way to the bank.
4727	Measure the amount of water by matching it to the scale marked on the inside of the bowl, not by using a separate cup-measuring tool.
4728	Measuring Behavior, held for the 8th time in 2012, is entirely focused on methods, techniques and tools for the study of behaviour.
4729	MEDEA2020 workshop on Webinars in Warsaw The second 2011 MEDEA2020 workshop entitled 'Webinar as a new Media Use Example' is taking place this week in Warsaw (28-29 July 2011) and is organised by MEDEA2020 partner Fundacja Obserwatorium Zarządzania.
4730	Media Advisory for latest round of E3/EU+3 talks with Iran The latest round of nuclear talks between the E3/EU+3 and Iran formally kicked off on Friday morning at the United Nations in New York, chaired by EU High Representative Catherine Ashton.
4731	Media fragments can be video snippets of any size from single frames or shots to several scenes.
4732	Mediagruppe Bitnik put together a neat little package containing a camera and a GPS and posted it for Mr.
4733	Media work focused on the regional dissemination workshop in June 2011 in Ljubljana.
4734	Medical Sales Jobs UK can be found on this site.
4735	Megalomania is what they suffer from and there are different degrees of it.
4736	Melios Athanasiou October 19th, 2012 Christos Mouzeviris October 19th, 2012 We need a project, something that will unite us, something great.
4737	Melissa loves luxury, fun, your attention and to be perfect for her client.
4738	Members of the BSG serve for a period of two and a half years.
4739	Members of the greens have also rallied in favour of the initiative.
4740	Members of the Working Group are: Among key objectives of this project are: Initial conclusions will be developed before the end of 2011 with a final report published by mid 2012.
4741	Member States are increasingly interdependent, in a globalised world, economic and governance system, resulting in the reality that social concerns cannot be solved at national level alone but require inter governmental cooperation.
4742	Member states can also register offline in workshops that will be organized as parallel sessions of related conferences.
4743	Member states had opted for the intergovernmental approach to solving the crisis and for the "Troika" solution, said Mr Regling.
4744	Memorandum of Understanding with the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) (formerly the Office of Fair Trading), a working agreement with the Information Commissioner and a concordat with the Scottish Information Commissioner.
4745	Mentioning the crisis, it comes only to confirm the need of pro-active visionaries in Europe - of course among the decision makers, but also and most importantly, among our citizens.
4746	Me on Intelligent Information Management under execution and APSIS4All on assistive ICT (GA no 247447).
4747	MEPs agreed that procurement decisions should take into account life-cycle costs, including environmental expenditure on greenhouse gases and other types of pollutants.
4748	MEPs also pushed successfully for any nanomaterials present in cosmetics to be mentioned in the list of ingredients on the packaging.
4749	MEPs have been calling for proper regulation for years: it's high time the Commission listened to the European Parliament and citizens on this issue."
4750	MEPs have not forgotten Commissioner Timmermans’ promises and have set the bar high for the future circular economy proposals.
4751	Merkel will have to deal with a revolution…and that should be very good for her popularity and her effort to Neo-liberalise the EU.
4752	Meteorological data, remotely sensed images and vector distribution areas are used for identifying risk levels which is an important issue in terms of public health.
4753	Methodological tools, training for practitioners and study courses are needed for capacity building.
4754	Methodology of mapping changes was consolidated.
4755	MFM went for a more traditional referendum campaign in Ireland – focusing much of their time on a national poster effort and on the airwaves.
4756	Micheal Pivot, current chair of the ERPC, said: “Putting an end to anti-Gypsyism must be an integral part of the National Roma Integration Strategies.
4757	Michèle Sabban, a short biography: Michèle Sabban has been President of the AER Observatory on Gender Issues since 2004 and an AER Vice-President since 2006.
4758	Michel Raquet, Advisor on Energy issues, michel.
4759	Micro-CHP is eligible for the funding within the programme as one of the energy-saving technologies.
4760	Microsoft boss Bill Gates was second with $56bn and investor Warren Buffett was third with $50bn dollars.
4761	Microwave spectroscopy will have plenty to do.
4762	Middleton has been called "the high street princess," and by high street, we're talking about Red Bottom Shoes For Men the kind of mainstream chain stores you'd find in the mall.
4763	MIGAL was established in 1979, and since than has carried out a wide variety of successful joint ventures with universities and SMEs in Israel and in many countries.
4764	Might it be that criminal networks in Kosovo are encouraging political instability and that they have no interest in building a functioning state which might disrupt their flourishing trade?
4765	Migrant domestic workers are still vulnerable to exploitation and abuse.
4766	Migrant Workers Will Be Displaced to the Margins The real losers in the whole affair are the migrant workers who are non resident.
4767	Mike Morecroft, Head of Profession for Climate Change, Natural England Conservation science has been considering climate change adaptation for almost as long as it has been researching the impacts of climate change.
4768	Mike: Yeah, but it's not as if these guys are working in a minimum wage job.
4769	Miliary the type of teacher who had the most beneficial influence on you.
4770	Milk seems to run be blessed closed again advice always offered young.
4771	Millions travel along its motorways in summertime from Paris to holidays at the sea.
4772	Miloš Vaněk- Auto-moto prodejci The company offers the sale of anti-radar devices.
4773	Mindszenty himself remained in the country, hiding in the American Embassy.
4774	MINECO is the main funding organization for basic and applied research in several related disciplines including Biomedicine, Molecular Biology, Life Sciences, Biotechnology, and Agriculture.
4775	Mineral nutrients delivered through cryovolcanic eruption would make the same locations the best candidates for photosynthetic life.
4776	Miners in Chile are building independent solar, solar thermal, wind and geothermal power plants that produce power at costs competitive with or lower than conventional fuel supplies or grid-connected electric power.
4777	Minimal cost advantages are crucial in determining whether an order will be placed or not.
4778	Minimizing subsequent investments translates into design requirements for minimum hardware interaction after mote deployment (eg for manual battery change or system reconfiguration).
4779	MIRA Project: Mediterranean Innovation and Research Coordination Action Community of Practice — MIRA Project: Mediterranean Innovation and Research Coordination Action Community of Practice Cookies are not enabled.
4780	Mitja Drobnic, the Director of ReSPA Mr.
4781	Mitt Alby owns 1,302 apartments distributed among 24 buildings (covering a land area of 145,032 sq.
4782	MOBIHEALTH - 4th International Conference on Wireless Mobile Communication and Healthcare - "Transforming..
4783	'Mobile Apps Lehel' makes no warranties respecting any harm that may be caused by the transmission of a computer virus, worm, time bomb, logic bomb, or other such computer program.
4784	Mobile phones featuring music players must also not be forgotten.
4785	Mobile software and service providers, telecom industry, call centres, games industries, etc.
4786	Moderated and interactive Panel Position statements (overall 40 minutes), followed by discussions fostered by questions from the audience.
4787	Moderators: mrshlyapa, dimadimadima Where find deleting swap files on mac?
4788	Moderators: pomidorkoo, uchihamadara Where find thoughtless book quotes?
4789	Moderators: staticigz, mrgoldman Where find sccm log file viewer?
4790	Modern Learning (DE) was responsible for developing the on-line eLearning portal.
4791	Modern warfare gets mixed with dark and depressed sci-fi, where shadowgun exploration gave us only indescribable terror of having Earth infested by dead zombie invaders.
4792	Modules are taught through classes, seminars and presentation groups and assessed through a range of written essays, reports and examinations.
4793	Mogherini's visit comes just after the first EU-Ukraine Association Council in Brussels and indicates the EU's s firm commitment to the relationship with Ukraine.
4794	Moi?) citizens are judging politicians increasingly on whether or… Could “green growth” fix Europe’s economy?
4795	Mon 6 Jun 09:00 - Sun 12 Jun 17:00 Roadshow and competition Europeana is organising a series of hackathons to showcase the potential of the API usage for data providers, partners and end-users.
4796	Monday, 9, May is 'Europe Day'; to celebrate the diversity and 'mix' of languages, music, food which constitutes Europe.
4797	Montenegro should address these shortcomings by putting in place a comprehensive industrial competitiveness strategy which should be supported by a system of evaluation indicators and benchmarks.
4798	Monthly Archives: December 2014 If You Read One Article About Trips, Read This One Dubai Travel Guide: Some Interesting Facts The United Arab Emirates have several places to go to and Dubai is one of the most interesting cities it has.
4799	Monthly sales of NG/biomethane used in vehicles amounts to estimated 16,8 million Nm3, of which biomethane accounts for approximately 65%.
4800	More about the initiative can be found on: Ligia Deca is a PhD candidate in political science.
4801	More details can be found in this manual in Chapter Metadata Exchange Format.
4802	More 'Financial & Competition' videos Banking union: “It’s more than urgent to deliver now”, says the European Commission Olivier Bailly, spokesperson of the European Commission, discusses the ECOFIN meeting on the 21st of June.
4803	More information about this project is available in the web summary.
4804	More information and registration will follow soon on the Mayors Adapt website.
4805	More information can be obtained here: In conclusion: greenhouse gases are controlled by one set of policies, whereas ozone and aerosols are controlled by another set of policies.
4806	More information from the authorities is also needed but we are on the right track.
4807	More information including registration forms please find on the separate pages.
4808	More information is needed on transformation products of POPs that may be formed under climate change and on their impact on the health of the Arctic environment and humans.
4809	More information on the trust seal mechanism can be found on the EDAA website from Friday.
4810	More information on the work of the EMA along with overview of the EMA transparency measures can be found on the EMA’s website under Special topics - Transparency.
4811	Moreover, a ‘Sustainable Development Steering Group’ was established on the national level to coordinate SD activities among the different ministries.
4812	Moreover, budget and force structure reductions are happening without sufficient transparency or coordination among allies, or consultation with NATO itself.
4813	Moreover, children of both nationalities involve their families in trips, picnics and concerts, encouraging friendship and intercultural dialog.
4814	Moreover, efficient algorithms exist for finding stable matchings in such settings.
4815	Moreover e-learning in green sectors is well-known solution in Italy and Portugal, still not in Poland, thus learning modules will be mainly transferred to Poland to rise technological awarness.
4816	Moreover, Finland's Premier Jyrki Katainen announced formally that he was giving up his premiership to pursue a European post.
4817	Moreover, four banks (Öesterreichische Volksbank AG, Dexia, WestLB AG and Bankia) from the original sample have been identified as undergoing a significant restructuring process, and are being monitored separately.
4818	Moreover, he also criticised the political parties that had pointed out the loss of sovereignty deriving from the Fiscal Compact, and he asked for a Federal Europe.
4819	Moreover, ‘I am blessed he comes from such a beautiful country, with such an amazing culture’, Ana mentioned.
4820	Moreover Internet could help in collecting data from travellers and vehicle movements, and making real-time information accessible online.
4821	Moreover, it establishes a platform for functional and biochemical dissection of the complex biogenesis of piRNAs - the most enigmatic class of small silencing RNAs."
4822	Moreover, it is a one step process, which can easily be integrated in a roll-to-roll application.
4823	Moreover, I would like to contribute to the definition of new publication and evaluation models for scholarly communication, in particular in the SSH, relating this reflection to the Europeana environment.
4824	Moreover, many different types of antiscalants are available on the market e.g., polyacrylates, phosphonates, and bio-based antiscalants.
4825	Moreover, reduced investment on specific critical capabilities is affecting the ability of NATO to act.
4826	Moreover, search summery will offer a clear summary of the types of vehicles available at Edinburgh Waverley Station, the specifications of each car, what is included and the price.
4827	Moreover, the conference aimed at strengthening international contacts and networks on the topic of the ECoC.
4828	Moreover, the current state of the art in Intercloud, concept and benefits of MDA and SOA are discussed in the paper.
4829	Moreover, the disposal of chemical waste may be very expensive and it could lead to serious consequences on the environment if it is not carried out properly, and affect people unrelated to the restoration procedure.
4830	Moreover, the near-unity state detection and the availability and operability of a universal set of gate operations make it already a test-bed for small-scale quantum computation.
4831	Moreover, the participants and lectures of the Liberty Seminars will have an opportunity to take one afternoon off their intense academic program to enjoy Slavica waterfall and Lake Bohinj.
4832	Moreover, the presentation of the new Audi A3 chassis allowed enthusiasts to understand the technological innovations provided by natural gas fuel.
4833	Moreover, the “raindrop” effect is reduced due to crop residues that are present in direct seeding, which improves infiltration and trickle-down properties.
4834	Moreover, the real-time composition or then current flux of sea will be broadcasted online.
4835	Moreover, there are diverse FIWARE resources explaining the technical dimension of the programme.
4836	Moreover, the results facilitate quantitative assessment of the benefits of alternative preventions and targeted policy measures with regard to their respective costs.
4837	Moreover the tax targets both the seller and the purchaser.
4838	”Moreover, the very heavily subsidised farmers’ social security fund (KRUS) provides little incentive for farmers to leave the sector, slowing economic restructuring and hampering productivity growth.”
4839	Moreover, the young people work together, get to know each other and have the opportunity to create something concrete, positive and potentially profitable.
4840	Moreover, they will have the ability to communicate with each other, providing a means of transferring, monitoring and controlling information everywhere in a ubiquitous and transparent manner.
4841	Moreover, this whole procedure is efficient and scalable: models can be trained and applied to the whole archive in just a matter of seconds.
4842	Moreover, (very) short formats are becoming more and more popular.
4843	Moreover, we appreciate the Directive can require the central registration of products for which compliance is demonstrated to be low.
4844	Moreover, we have all information required to compare the invoiced value with the effort implied by each activity.
4845	Moreover we welcomed representatives from the fields: agriculture, viticulture, tourism and architecture.
4846	Moreover when the vital sensation of hunger in the body is suppressed forcibly, it may lead to effects on brain either directly or indirectly.
4847	More PowerDVD is a DVD player and comes with some additional features in this latest version.
4848	More prescriptive regulation tends to hamper innovative activity, whereas the more flexible EU regulation is, the better innovation can be stimulated.
4849	More recently, the Strategic Energy Technology Plan (SET-Plan, COM(2007)723), which forms the backbone of the European Energy Technology Policy, has included European Industrial Initiatives on carbon capture and storage and on second generation biofuels.
4850	More specifically, our Arctic strategy focuses on three main policy objectives: protecting and preserving the Arctic together with its population; promoting the sustainable use of resources; and enhancing multilateral governance in the region.
4851	More than 100 scientific sessions on hot topics in heart failure will be presented by global experts and supply a rich source of news stories for journalists.
4852	More than 120 scholars, officials, experts, representatives and observers from universities, enterprises and EU member state embassies were present.
4853	More than 87 percent of respondents view the EU’s dependence on the United States as the main obstacle to a comprehensive Sino-European partnership.
4854	More than likely this is through a provided USB cable.
4855	More than one-third of Americans surveyed in an April 2007 Harris Poll decided not to take a prescribed medicine because of safety concerns about risks and more than a quarter chose not to fill a prescription at all over safety concerns.
4856	» more The quality of the product and its chances of becoming a market success are maximized by running testings throughout the entire development period.
4857	More With AutoPlay Media Studio you can create various types of multimedia projects.
4858	More work will be needed, in particular towards intrusion tolerance for systems based on large dynamic and ad-hoc groups.
4859	Morning Session “Use of ESPON Targeted Analyses by Stakeholders” The morning session was devoted to an exchange of detailed views and experiences among Stakeholders involved in the ESPON Targeted Analyses.
4860	Mortality will be determined by the abundance of predators (top-down), and will be particularly important for the younger demersal stages when individuals are more prone to predation due to small size.
4861	Moscow’s foreign policy behavior after the conclusion of the EU association agreement with Kiev—and arranged under the neighborhood initiative banner—culminated in the outbreak of severe tensions in eastern Ukraine.
4862	Most authors use keywords in their native language; some combine keywords in more than one language.
4863	Most critics have already given Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles a critical kicking, but the fact is critics take things too seriously.
4864	Most current tourists in the region naturally come from Germany, often from the ranks of the families who were expelled after 1945.
4865	Most folk are not willing to take the risk but there are people, still within United States that are willing to go through hardship for those yet to come, the children to come.
4866	Most installed pumps are oversized.
4867	Most of her 14-year career in banking from 1989 to 2003 was with JP Morgan.
4868	Most of our partners are accommodation and social rehabilitation centres (Centres d’Hébergement et de Réinsertion Sociale, CHRS).
4869	"Most of our work involves heavily bespoke designs tailored per customer, and it can be hard to prioritise upgrades for our own internal systems," says Phil Webb, chief technical officer, EMIS.
4870	Most of that which contributes to our work as teachers, preparation work, artistic work, even meditative work is under the guidance of Lucifer.
4871	Most of the great logos are absolutely simple and it is 2012 Nike Free Run 3 Azul Plata Mujeres Comprar Con Seguridad always easier for us to remember and recognize a simple design than to identify a complicated artwork.
4872	Most of them are dead now, but they created the culture you’re going through right now, right down to the society they would bring in, where marriage basically would be defunct.
4873	Most of the people stay for a cup of tea and I talk to Alena, the moderator, who looks very tired.
4874	Most of the systems are designed without cyber security in mind, since interconnection with other systems through unsafe channels, is becoming the rule during last years.
4875	Mostostal Warszawa R&D Department actively participates in various international initiatives connected with Research & Technological Development.
4876	Most projects are doing a small part of a very complex advanced IT "idea".
4877	Most recently she was involved in the international research projects Varieties of Democracy and European Elections 2014, in which she participated as a country expert analysing media and news management practices in Croatia.
4878	Most revolutions are not bloody—they're cultural.
4879	Most serious jazz dancers also study ballet since those techniques help dancers perform the sharp movements of jazz dance because of this connection, some jazz dancers throughout history have also worn ballet shoes.
4880	Most students are training grade doctors who take the degree after the Foundation Programme Year 2. Other suitable times are between core and speciality training or as one year ‘out of programme experience’ during your speciality training.
4881	Mottos urging energy and action adorned her walls and filled her notebooks.
4882	Movement analysis in crowded areas, such as metro stations, can detect and alert anomalous behaviours, identifying simple issues such as a broken ticket machine to more complex events like a robbery or terrorism act.
4883	Move the "Fan" switch to "Auto" and the "Mode" runescape range training guide p2p 2012 to the "Off" position.
4884	Moving back to RES – one way out of the FiT “problem” is to implement local energy markets, whereby locals can sell energy to each other.
4885	Moving to a competitive low-carbon society is central to the EU policy agenda, as outlined in Chapter 2. The process of shifting towards a low-carbon economy was explored by several of the INTERREG IVC climate change projects.
4886	Moving to the third level of analysis, Identification, the choices on editing responses are narrowly tied with the ways children present themselves inside or outside the representation.
4887	Mr Callanan repeated calls for the European Parliament to hold its final vote on whether to accept or reject the budget in an open manner, avoiding a secret ballot that had been planned by the leaders of the EPP, S&D, ALDE and Green groups.
4888	Mr Cameron will say: “They’ve all got one thing in common: a firm commitment from this Government to help them (A: I like this beautiful part…) realise their dreams.
4889	Mr Hudghton said that the comments by the Ombudsman in an interview published in today's (Thursday) Scotsman newspaper showed that the need for greater Scottish representation in Europe was being recognised at the highest levels.
4890	Mr Markkula argued that "the lack of opportunities provides fertile ground for extremist groups to exploit anger, frustration and marginalisation.
4891	Mr Nielsen holds an engineering masters degree from The Technical University of Denmark (DTU) where he has specialized in nanotechnology in general and more specifically in nanoimprint lithography.
4892	Mr Nolet was furthermore supported by two experts, one lawyer and one auditor, who are both close acquaintances of Mr Nolet.
4893	"Mr Piebalgs underlined his willingness to co-operate closely with the European Parliament and this committee in the coming years.
4894	Mr Regling's expectations are this month to be raised 5.9 bn euros, in April 3.3 bn and in May 5.3 bn for Greece.
4895	Mr Tusk, together with Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, will have the delicate task of mediating between the interests of the European Union member states in order to find common positions and solutions that benefit all European citizens.
4896	Mr Vytenis Andriukaitis, former Health Minister of Lithuania, was designated as new European Commissioner for the Health Policy and Food Safety portfolio.
4897	MS:Basically the main idea for us was the close collaboration between art museums in Denmark to explore the benefits of opening up collections for re-use online.
4898	Ms Ellen Schenk - Scientific manager "Liverpool Hope University choose to use Mastersportal to help raise awareness of its postgraduate courses to a wider audience.
4899	Ms Promet points out that ECHA and many stakeholder organisations provide lots of useful information for companies.
4900	Much effort is put into practical POF installations.
4901	’ Much of the funding for such research at the non-profit EBI comes from the European Union, under the Directorate-General Research & Innovation’s Sixth and Seventh Framework Programmes.
4902	Multi-layered security keeps data and identities protected as they can work anywhere with long-lasting battery life.
4903	Multi-parcel is a block that amalgamates ten or more clearly distinct parcels.
4904	Münster, Germany, donderdag 26 juni 2014 Herewith we like to announce the inauguration of the German Cap’em exhibition.
4905	Music Business in a Box offers music business handbook and career guide from popular music authors like Doc Holliday, L.T Hutton and Ron Berkowitz, music course, music techniques, music teaching tips and more.
4906	Musorgského 1077/14, Ostrava (Moravská Ostrava) Restaurant with French and international cuisine specializing in fresh seafood.
4907	Mutated by Gamma Radiation in NYC This website uses cookies to enhance performance, provide personalized content and relevant advertising, and for statistical analyses.
4908	My advice is: "Don't be afraid of what can seem different and hard, let's put yourself to the test".
4909	My daily design and illustration work is recognizable in my ‘free’ work.
4910	My experience fullfil the requirements for 6 years ( 3+3).
4911	My hope is that art historians, critics, theologians and sociologists will follow up on the questions I have raised.
4912	My job is to provide the visual aspect of the game.
4913	My last story is the least appetising.
4914	My own experience of life is expressed in the way I treat pictorial surfaces: the boundary line between life and transcendence is not sharp and clear, it is fragile and transparent.
4915	My partner and I met at EUI, he is PhD in Law and our baby boy Pablo is just the best experience that has happened to us.
4916	My plea would be: try things out and see what works.’
4917	My presentation related to the German Innovation Alliance CNT will be about production of carbon Nanotubes (CNT).
4918	My quote was from the article a week ago about the Warspite, and you said they should then have given us a warning.
4919	My real challenge is to bring those who watch fiction to watch documentaries.
4920	"My request fits in the logic of the new CAP, which will be greener.
4921	Name of the institution expert is representing: LNG in Baltic Sea Ports Project, Steering Group.
4922	Naming UMZ: methods and results.
4923	Nanogate has also entered into strategic cooperations with international companies such as the GEA Group and Dow Corning.
4924	Nanotechnology is technology that operates on the nanoscale (one billionth of a meter).
4925	Národní 339/11, Praha (Prague 1-Staré Město) We operate a rental, a bazaar, sale and servicing of caravans.
4926	Nathalie De Craecker, This email address is being protected from spambots.
4927	National focal point, Oslo, November 2005 Commissioned each year by the EMCDDA and produced by the national focal points of the Reitox network, the National reports draw an overall picture of the drug phenomenon at national level in each EU Member State.
4928	National Innovation office (NIH) The National Innovation office (NIH) has a key role in developing and implementing Hungary’s science, technology and innovation policies.
4929	National legislation; data protection; Europe; This section primarily provides links to websites of the United Nations Organisation, which is the all-embracing body concerned with international law.
4930	National Library of France (Public Domain).
4931	National networking was primarily implemented with seminars and workshops and other dissemination activities undertaken by national partners, which addressed, at times, stakeholder groups active at the local level.
4932	National Policy and European Research Area As mentioned in the above section the newly established innovation offices are intended to support researchers that would like to commercialise their research results and further to establish spin-off companies.
4933	National responses to these challenges also vary greatly with regard to both policy design and outcome.
4934	NATO considers the development of partnership relations with Serbia as very important for the stability of the region.
4935	Natural Cleaning Products - Envyss, LLC is a leading company in US offering the cleaning products which includes natural cleaning products and green cleaning products for home and industry.
4936	Natural hazards research requires a robust and comprehensive framework that links individual hazard and multi-hazards research with the integration of the risk-reduction chain.
4937	NCB branches should grant commercial parties (retailers) the right to deposit euro notes and coins directly to the NCB counter resulting in a shorter process chain.
4938	Nearly 20% of water is lost in developed countries through leaks, theft or mismanagement, and this figure can rise to 75% in developing countries.
4939	Nearly 400 registered substances are classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction and more than 150 as very toxic to aquatic organisms.
4940	Needless to say, she spent days exploring the different settings and functions, only to discover that it was merely the surface she was looking at.
4941	Negotiation as a process.
4942	Neither does the current legal environment provide the ability for banks to potentially levy additional so-called 'non-STP charges' in case the criteria of the industry definition of STP, as laid down in these conventions, are not complied with.
4943	Neither the collapse of the Soviet Union, nor the German reunification - two events of capital importance - caused a Russian turnaround like the one we are seeing now.
4944	NetCDF is a set of software libraries and self-describing, machine-independent data formats that support the creation, access, and sharing of array-oriented scientific data.
4945	NET Date: Sat, 11 Jul 2015 13:29:39 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 34733 You must be logged in to view this page.
4946	NET Date: Sun, 12 Jul 2015 10:45:30 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 34765 You must be logged in to view this page.
4947	NET Date: Sun, 12 Jul 2015 16:06:27 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 34929 You must be logged in to view this page.
4948	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 10:46:10 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 14596 Recycle and Reuse of Agro Programmes This project has been funded with support from the European Commission.
4949	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:03:02 GMT Connection: close Previous 9/51 Next (Go back to Inventory List ) A toolkit for teachers of environmentally themed subjects and others active in environmental education.
4950	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:20:12 GMT Connection: close Legal Affairs and Women's Rights Committees agree to protect the civil rights of citizens in all European territory.
4951	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:36:44 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 32415 SIENA’s objectives are complementary to the role of the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in cloud standards, guidance and technology.
4952	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:42:12 GMT Connection: close Development of a framework for Mapping European Seabed Habitats (MESH) The MESH website is now part of the EMODnet Seabed Habitats website.
4953	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:49:33 GMT Connection: close Do you want know more about ELIH-Med and related shorstories?
4954	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 13:37:14 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 50775 SIENA’s objectives are complementary to the role of the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in cloud standards, guidance and technology.
4955	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 13:50:59 GMT Connection: close Future of payments: in your view, which of the following factors is most likely to trigger the next wave of innovation in the European payments market?
4956	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 14:13:54 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 34721 You must be logged in to view this page.
4957	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 14:37:37 GMT Connection: close No articles were returned for your search High Definition broadcast quality video is available for download.
4958	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 15:28:09 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 41140 Network of Associations of Local Authorities of South-East Europe The NALAS Task Force on Energy Efficiency addresses the increasing issues with energy in South East Europe.
4959	NET Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 22:52:43 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 70192 Directives for Commercial Transportation The Community has an established policy to encourage sustainable transport such as shipping, and in particular, short sea shipping.
4960	NET Date: Wed, 08 Jul 2015 00:51:30 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 34789 You must be logged in to view this page.
4961	NET Date: Wed, 08 Jul 2015 06:17:14 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 34843 You must be logged in to view this page.
4962	NET Jörg Niehoff (EC, DG Research & Innovation) 09:20-09:40 MATERA: Strengthening the Chain from Materials Science and Engineering towards Innovations 09:40-10:00 MNT-ERA.
4963	NET MicrosoftSharePointTeamServices: 14.0.0.6109 Date: Wed, 08 Jul 2015 05:20:22 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 8044 Click here for a complete list of operations.
4964	Net, SQL Server & MySQL technology.
4965	NETWERC H2O is an association, in which no member is under any obligation to follow a specific political policy.
4966	NETWERC H2O provides a voice for its members and enables them to interact with all the principal actors concerned with European water issues, thus forming a focus of debate and development.
4967	Network with local and regional transport decision-makers and officers from around Europe.
4968	NET X-MS-InvokeApp: 1; RequireReadOnly Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:45:00 GMT Content-Length: 113649 Connection: close Age: 0 PC-01 - FG on Electricity Grid Connection This Web Part is required for the workspace to function properly.
4969	NET X-Powered-By-Plesk: PleskWin Date: Thu, 09 Jul 2015 10:28:29 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 24507 In December 2011 the European Commission will publish its Energy Roadmap for 2050.
4970	NET X-Powered-By-Plesk: PleskWin Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 11:15:16 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 15380 See photos from EU-related events and learn more about academic programs and think-tank events, arts festivals and cultural activities.
4971	NET X-Powered-By-Plesk: PleskWin Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:57:28 GMT Connection: close Content-Length: 16445 See photos from EU-related events and learn more about academic programs and think-tank events, arts festivals and cultural activities.
4972	Neurogenic shock (distributive) from autonomic disturbance with interruption of sympathetic pathways with associated parasympathetic excitation.
4973	Nevertheless, according to §§ 8 to 10 TMG, as a service contractor we are not required to review or monitor transmitted or saved foreign data that advert illegal activity.
4974	Nevertheless a small revolution took place: for the first time in history, a European legal status for political parties was created.
4975	Nevertheless, it also calls for the role of societal stakeholders to be enhanced, noting that this could be achieved with the support of organisations which represent the interests of, for example, consumers.
4976	Nevertheless, ralph lauren pas cher, if you have it regularly, ralph lauren pas cher, then it is bad.
4977	Nevertheless, the current bilateral model is not always valid for several reasons.
4978	Nevertheless, the current Parliamentary leadership has faced the unavoidable task of opening up Parliamentary processes to the public especially following the move of the new Parliament to Kutaisi.
4979	Nevertheless, these issues can be addressed and at the very least, would allow for a more functional and challenge-oriented structure than the current one.
4980	Nevertheless they will end up in the sediments, therefore concentrations in the sediments are often 10 to 100 times higher than those in solution.
4981	New and exciting stuff is available all the time and you will have lots of fun testing an assembling it.
4982	New Balance has been specialized in manufacturing sports shoes for feet special person since the establishment in Boston in 1906.
4983	New designs would need to comply with additional safety requirements but these still need to be developed.
4984	New Finnish government: mixed feelings about Europe 25 May 2015 – In the Finnish elections which took place a little over a month ago, the government led by the centre-right National Coalition Party experienced a loss.
4985	New improvements in terms of health protection of operators (before, during and after the field operation) are also expected by end-users.
4986	New lines of the future, other challenges and other additions to our team.
4987	New offer for visitors of Prague In Nuremberg on 3 – 5 July 2014, attended by a City of Prague delegation led by Deputy Mayor Václav Novotný, an event entitled Prague Days in Nuremberg took place.
4988	New Products are Updated Ever Hour and you get your Order INSTANTLY!
4989	New projects are done without the Neomodel and it just works.
4990	New proposals for Internet architectures, protocols and services should not be limited to paperwork, as they need early experimentation and testing in large-scale environments, even though some of these ideas might only be implemented in the long-term.
4991	New psychoactive substances can emerge quickly on the market and there is inevitably a time-lag before an individual substance can be subjected to legal controls.
4992	New regulatory and business models are urgently needed, in particular to cope with the increasing share of variable energy sources.
4993	New Research in Danish Underwater ArchaeologyVia Horizon Magazine.
4994	New study materials in the area of advanced technology and cloud computing, plus well educated researchers will open up wider opportunities for the use of radio-astronomy in business.
4995	New surveys and researches show that the extremists are on the wave.
4996	NEWSWEEK published a small back-page article about a very different kind of disaster.
4997	New techniques for emission reduction in engines through the use of biogas, advanced lubricants, coatings and light weight materials were developed.
4998	New Technologies as Social Experiments: Conditions for Morally Responsible Experimentation Professional/Popular publications (selection)Van de Poel, Ibo, and Shannon Spruit. 2013.
4999	Next point is that the US drone war has actually killed more militants, and has had less civilian casualties than any other form of warfare when it comes to bombing things.
5000	Next to the common challenges faced by cities in the "Century of here city", the city of Leuven also has to deal with the rapid growth of the university.
5001	Next week, Brazilian authorities will come to Brussels for the XV Brazil-EU Joint Committee, which will be preceded by a meeting of the Joint Sub-Committee on Economic and Trade affairs, Dialogue at the level of Political Directors.
5002	NGOs say the EU lacks the political will to fight air pollution.
5003	Nice customer service.
5004	Nice strategy for next, I will be bookmarking at once seize your complete rises ccna This is a smart blog.
5005	Nicholas‘ cathedral in Ludgeřovice and also the perfect acoustics of the neo-Gothic St.
5006	Nicholas Papastamatiou April 12th, 2015 Yes, to protect the women.
5007	Nicholas Shubin is the one.
5008	Nicky Miller - Research Evidence Partnerships Manager, College of Policing, UK Dr.
5009	Nicolas Kint the chief parking facilitator is responsible for marketing & partnerships.
5010	Nikolova, I., Danchev, N. (2008), ‘Piperazine based substances of abuse: a new party pills on Bulgarian drug market’, Biotechnology & Biotechnological Equipment, Volume 22, No 2, pp. 652–655.
5011	Nine days after his arrest, Mikhaïl Khodorkovski announced his resignation from the function of director and said that he wanted to continue his work as president of the ONG Open Russia.
5012	Nitrogen is also a common refrigerant component.
5013	NIW will nurture floor and shoe designs which may impact the way we get information from the environment.
5014	Nobody can imagine what the consequences of this would be.
5015	No civilized society will advance without a well-functioning State of Law and without a shared belief in that State of Law on the part of society.
5016	No country has aged as quickly as China is aging now, and virtually no poor country has followed a similar trajectory.
5017	"No country may join the European Union if it occupies a part of the European Union," continued the Maltese MEP.
5018	No DMAA was detected in any of the eight geranium products with a limit of detection of 10 parts per billion.
5019	No doubt there are conspiracies and plots, and there is a game of intelligence and intrigues, but what the society desires in politics, economy and national engagement is what creates the final outcome.
5020	No draft to approve, so not really.
5021	No, EASA does not have a “pre-defined” list of excluded aeroplane types (similar to FAR 26.11(g)).
5022	No effects on the composition of the parasitic wasp populations (parasitoids and hyperparasitoids) are discernible.
5023	" "No effort must be spared in the coming days and weeks, even at this late stage in terms of the current Iraqi crisis, to seek a common accord and exert EU influence where it counts - at the UN Security Council.
5024	No feasibility studies confirmed the opportunity of these projects and no private money were interested either – that is, other than under preferential terms.
5025	No, I'm not on probation, I'm spending a day with Willy Wands producer of the new Rebus, starring Ken Stott.
5026	No international standards deal with PRRS or PMWS.
5027	No, it's because they know you have free will, and they don't want you taking hold of real human destiny.
5028	No, it's not serpent people.
5029	Nominations have to be submitted by 31 January of any given year.
5030	Non-conformance manager for in-service support products.
5031	No neither deterministic or random(quantum) but Both in an intertwined play of axioms and meta-axioms where as James N Rose says “existence is it’s OWN justification” not either or but both.
5032	None of these will address the underlying malaise.
5033	Nonetheless, for the moment, the political will to transpose TTIP to the multilateral level is little more than a declaration of intent.
5034	Nonetheless, he remarked that close monitoring of developments and benchmarking at EU level, in addition to national policies, were very useful.
5035	Nonetheless, the government is clearly weaker today than before the elections, since a nationwide vote cannot be ignored.
5036	No one book will ever give you the whole truth of all of this deception that's been going on, the deception that we call reality.
5037	No one can see me dancing along to Abba or doing all the actions to never Forget by Take That.
5038	No one could possibly need that we with the parent advanced seriously considering every facet of every part.
5039	No one is interested in who invented the euro or has paternity/maternity rights to the flawed currency.
5040	No one is listening.
5041	No one I spoke to was actually contacted by their collecting society with such a request.
5042	No one will ever persuade me that Europe's results won't be extraordinary when EU member states develop this spirit of solidarity.
5043	No: Please contact your competent national authority or Ombudsman, where appropriate, to submit your complaint.
5044	Nor do national governments want to give up control over their military capabilities.
5045	No Rights or Interests 18. The Complainant avers that it is not aware of any evidence that at any material time the Respondent has ever had any rights or legitimate interests in, or has ever indicated any legitimate use of, the disputed Domain Name.
5046	Nor is volunteering simply a North to South process for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
5047	Norway is a highly developed welfare state with comprehensive welfare arrangements, and thus a high level of equality.
5048	Nor will technical support be provided for COM and the Windows application development tools that support COM.
5049	No, simply that she has it in sight and has noticed that all the passengers have already boarded.
5050	No spaces or other characters should be used between the digits composing the phone number.
5051	No, submitting a project idea has no legal value: it is a tool that can be used by interested organisations to promote a project idea or to look for partners.
5052	Not alone the government, but aswell institutions and analysis institutes are accumulation efforts to be able to ascertain the agency Ireland can abate its assurance on adopted produced energy.
5053	NOTE: actual shipping charges might deviate up to 10% from this page as we are in the process of updating those charges according to new schedules.
5054	Note: please consider that not all the relations among the nodes are depicted.
5055	Note: Some PEPPOL Access Point providers may offer simple web-based portals or templates where SME suppliers can enter data directly into a form to create and transmit PEPPOL-compliant documents.
5056	Note that the outlier check is ideally adapted to basic indicators (count data, ratios) but not necessarily to complex typologies or indexes resulting from a huge methodological background.
5057	Note that this VO is mainly for testing and demonstration purposes.
5058	Note: The EU-Russia Civil Society Forum was founded with European support in Prague in late March 2011.
5059	Note: The Mayors Adapt initiative is a voluntary commitment.
5060	Not even the Ukrainians wanted that!
5061	No, the problems would by far not have reached the current extreme levels if the nations which are now in deep trouble would have acted more responsible.
5062	Nothing has happened in culture across the whole Western world that wasn’t planned by very big WEALTHY powers to bring in a whole new society of total control.
5063	Nothing illegal, just another way of doing things.
5064	Nothing will change though because there’s more to it, and there’s more to the whole idea, and people, of Hollywood than meets the eye.
5065	Not interdependent, they're independent.
5066	Not less unpleasant news is that the increase of interest rates on the Portuguese debt led to increase of the rates on Spain's debts which is also in tough financial situation.
5067	Not many to go at the moment and we all thought that it was just happening by bad men, of course, that we must get rid off.
5068	Not only does it need to be available in milliseconds when requested, but we also want to be able to extract every last bit of intelligence from the data to make decisions, which make our application s more effective.
5069	Not only have they no recipe, but they are not looking for one.
5070	Not only luck can change for any of us at any time, but we will also all be old sooner or later and many of us have small children, so all of us could sooner or later find ourselves in an underprivileged situation.
5071	Not only that, but they are also highly durable as well.
5072	Not only to destroy the family unit but to destroy everything basically until everyone is so helpless and dysfunctional that big government and its agencies will control your entire life from birth to death.
5073	Not only were there no treatments, there was no respect towards the people with the disease.
5074	Not “real”, of course.
5075	No trucks larger than the pickup variety will be allowed.
5076	Not sure about an ingredient you see here or where to buy it.
5077	Not to be underestimated, social reading functionalities may boost readers’ participation to the subscription ecosystem.
5078	Not until the appearance of the first reformist government led by Ivan Miklos who succeeded Vladimir Meciar.
5079	Notwithstanding the aforementioned efforts, reflections continue on potential further next steps.
5080	No vacuum cleaner is perfect.
5081	November 14, 2013Leave a comment FacebookshareGoogle+shareTwittertweetPinterestpin it LIBER is Europe's leading network of research libraries, with over 400 members.
5082	Novembercowboys lessen coming from zoysia, report wins well all done aircraft or vikings, followed by leave annual thanksgiving holiday day program within order at seattle.
5083	Novoborská 619/25, Praha (Prague 9-Prosek) E-shop offering sales of handsets and accessories.
5084	“Now, a case of very bad governance is to take a decision without knowing what you are talking about.
5085	Nowadays, annual direct cost of metallic corrosion in Europe is estimated € 200 billion.
5086	Nowadays I participate in a European project analyzing the use of mycorrhizal in improving the cultivation of perennial grasses for biomass production Subjects.
5087	Nowadays, there are many good examples involving important organizations and initiatives that stress the opportunities offered by LD and foster the aggregation of multi-language open resources into the Linked Open Data cloud.
5088	Now, Agenda 21 is here from the United Nations and WE are all getting put into reserves.
5089	Now, Aldous Huxley himself only became animated and excited when he talked about Tavistock and the experiments they were doing there in the 40s and 50s.
5090	Now also in this system, you understand fascism and communism are basically the same thing as far as I’m concerned, when you look at them.
5091	Now a significant proportion (i.e. 8.5%) of the area is managed under a continuous cover forestry system where a continuous canopy is maintained and no clearfell is conducted.
5092	Now, a small proportion (i.e. 2%) of the area is managed under the continuous cover forestry (CCF) system, where a continuous canopy is maintained and no clearfell is conducted.
5093	Now at a pilot stage, the platform is designed for a complete country-by-country search of their priority diseases, the bottlenecks to cures and strategies to overcome them.
5094	Now Dan from Kentucky I think is on the line.
5095	Now for the rest of the particular talk, I'd like to go back to what Shelley Anne-Clark was talking about, on the amalgamation of the Americas, during the Free Trade negotiations.
5096	Now he's vanished, and if he doesn't show up for next week's court date, the Dollys will spend the rest of the winter in the woods.
5097	Now I am sitting down on my three seated sofa and I am thinking to myself what a big mistake I made.
5098	Now I know you’re always saying that we should become individuals.
5099	Now, I’m not going to expose him.
5100	"Now is the time to act!
5101	Now it is with the knowledge that I will be on my own for the next three weeks, a somewhat scary thought.
5102	Now it’s bags of rubbish, something that’s there naturally.
5103	Now, I've talked before about how the modern police, again, have been brought up on a generation of video games and their heroes are all guys in black and these games just kill, kill, kill.
5104	Now, let me hand over to our Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing, Daniele Schillaci, to tell you about the first models to get this latest technology.
5105	Now let's take that last bit again.
5106	Now let’s try to remember the last full-on riot in Britain that resulted from a political rally?
5107	Now open mfc interview questions and answers pdf weapons folder and you will see several folders with the names of the guns like ak47 etc.
5108	No workers, consumers or environmentalists.
5109	Now that means not just nationally for all your goods and necessities, but also it means interdependent personally.
5110	Now that the development phase is over, the new varieties are brewed in the large-scale brewery.
5111	Now that the Tal Law has expired, conscription is in theory governed by legislation - passed in 1949 and last amended in 1986 - that requires all Israelis above 18 years of age to enlist, unless specifically exempted by the defence ministry."
5112	Now, there’re two callers on the line so I’ll take them first before I continue and tie it in with the present day as to what’s happening.
5113	Now there's a little blog here.
5114	Now there’s a new mood amongst airline marketers as they emerge, leaner and wiser, from that downturn.
5115	Now, they probably can go into porn sites and all the rest of it in their spare time but don’t go into Alan Watt.
5116	Now they’re into big foundations.
5117	Now they want their money and interests back, while they soffocate the debtors, who will never be able to pay that odious and ilegitimate debt.
5118	Now we are to present them online and make a presentation for all the museums which means they can show it to their visitors.
5119	Now with a mobile version for even more sex videos on your phone! 07.07.15 - Sexy offer of the day: (Showing 25-36 of 933 sex videos) Horny brunette gay Alex Junior.
5120	Now you might ask why it must be very easy to take this test in your mother tongue.
5121	Now you’ve got..
5122	Now you would take scientists in all ages by the way if you were a primitive person, you would call them a god, like a pharaoh was a god too.
5123	NPL offers a unique range of measurement services, contract research, consultancy and training services.
5124	NQF Inclusive - Accreditation and Certification of basic vocational education for disadvantaged people via NQF Basic vocational trainings for disadvantaged people or for people from sectors of society with low educational achievement are often on a..
5125	NRW funded by the EU. PDF version of the Press Release PRESS4TRANSPORT Communication Guidelines are out now!
5126	N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told the council that projected climate changes can not only have serious environmental, social and economic implications, but implications for peace and security as well.
5127	NU is a research university, offering graduate and undergraduate studies in engineering, technology, management and management of technology (MOT).
5128	Numerical methods in mathematical physics, especially for ordinary differential equations and statistical analysis of economic time series are also part of the research.
5129	Numerous examples of policy design and technological knowledge combining to facilitate de-coupling are cited from countries across the globe.
5130	Nutrition-related information-seeking behaviours before and throughout the course of pregnancy: consequences for nutrition communication.
5131	Objective and consistent criteria are used to determine this, based on the breadth and depth of products sold.
5132	Observing the arrival times of individually marked birds in Iceland is relatively easy as they tend to concentrate on a small number of sites during late April and early May.
5133	Obviously that’s of critical importance.
5134	Obviously, there must be a minimum wage, and here is why.
5135	Occasional mode of transmission Probably through semen from boars or AI.
5136	Ocean acidification as a consequence of increased CO2 in the atmosphere can have very serious impacts on marine organisms and ecosystems.
5137	‘Of course I should say we don’t do this with water, we do this with light pulses in fibre optics.
5138	Of course there are many other home based business ideas that you will want to consider if you are interested in establishing the best home based business bench for you.
5139	Of course, this only works if the domain where you have your email address plays along.
5140	Offenses in this category go through a thorough analysis before punishment is given; 7. Transmit unsolicited advertising, promotional materials, or other forms of solicitation.
5141	Offer advertising drives the wheels of cars.
5142	Offer for cooperation in the area of Middle East and UAE InternetCont is medial company with commercial activity in the area of Middle East and in Europe.
5143	Offer goods brand NIKE, BAUER, NBH, Easton, and Reebok. 28. října 247, Ostrava (Ostrava-Mariánské Hory a Hulváky) We offer all the sofas and furniture for apartment, house and office.
5144	Offers Gastric bypass & Weight loss surgery, Obesity surgery, Weight Controll, Overweight, Stomach Staple and much more.
5145	Offer tours around the world.
5146	Offshore installations may disturb the environment through the placement of structures on the seabed, which disturb benthic organisms, acoustic disturbances and light emission.
5147	Of particular note, combining the HF observations with satellite measurements has identified the presence of irregularities within the floor of the trough that result in propagation displaced from the great circle direction.
5148	Of special interest are applications which demonstrate the effectiveness of the main Euro-Par topics.
5149	Often, such guidelines are posted on a wall where they can be referred to during The facilitator explains that he or she will try to shepherd the conversa- tion along according to the guidelines described.
5150	Often, such services are dubbed Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).
5151	Often the best and fastest way to get a hazard corrected is to notify a supervisor or employer.
5152	Often this is wasted or misused.
5153	Of these, 184 councils have contributed data to the Measures Report in that year or in previous years.
5154	Of what?) The Identity Commissioner will champion their interests (A: It’s like the Privacy Commissar.
5155	Okay, and today I thought we could spend some time talking a little bit about the North American Union.
5156	Okay, Mens Air Jordan 5 White Metallic With Best Quality, these my friends are my tables full of foo foo fighters here.
5157	OK, guys, what you both written is true - theoretically.
5158	Öland, Sweden's second largest island, signed the Pact of Islands on 13 September 2010.
5159	Old mansions, many of them well-preserved, luxurious department stores and small intimate shops, fancy restaurants and traditional taverns are located one next to another.
5160	Omar Mateiro October 30th, 2013 Unity in diversity seems to me as a good moto for the time being… catherine benning October 31st, 2013 Your line is an oxymoron, one cancels the other.
5161	On 14 and 15 November 2014, on the occasion of the CPME general meetings held in Budapest (Hungary), the General Assembly voted in favor of the application for CPME full membership sent by CNOM.
5162	On 18 October 2006, the Respondent sent an email to the Complainant stating that only blank emails were received.
5163	On 21 May, the European Commission adopted a Communication "Maximising the Development Impact of Migration", which provides the basis for a common position of the EU and its Member States at the High-level Dialogue.
5164	On 21st and 22nd October in Richmond (California, United States), participants will have the opportunity to think critically, ask questions, share tools, and build lasting partnerships which make smarter and more sustainable cities possible.
5165	On 25 November in Sofia we will summarise the achievements so far and will try to look in the future.
5166	On 25th of October 2013, the ministers of science from the Western Balkans region during the ministerial meeting on regional R&D adopted the Western Balkans Regional R&D Strategy on Innovation (WBRDSI).
5167	On 29 April, the Greens in the German Bundestag also organised a roundtable discussion on the carbon bubble.
5168	On 4 December, 11 members of an armed group launched an attack against law enforcement officials in central Grozny.
5169	On 5-6 July 2011, the partners attended a two-day interregional workshop under the theme “Sustainable Transport and Non-Motorised Transport” in Ljubljana, Slovenia.
5170	On 7 January 2014, the EPC together with the CSG published version 7.0 of the SCS Volume, ready for market implementation.
5171	On a categorised page, categories are displayed in the Categories: box strictly in the order they appear in the wikitext.
5172	On average, just over half of the public research institutes' financing comes from the state budget.
5173	On behalf of 56 organizations of the EPP Youth, I would like to offer all our enthusiasm in this political battle.
5174	Once a number has been allocated, this number should subsequently be included in the Annex A and product information annexes submitted together with the Variation notification.
5175	Once completed please return it to JRC-IPTS-TELEVISIONS@ec.
5176	Once fishermen and other stakeholders are more directly involved, they will become a key part in the design of workable and effective fisheries management strategies that will ensure the EU meets its sustainable fisheries policy commitments.
5177	Once I am in… Australia.
5178	Once it is out there it is out there and in the very best scenario I could possibly make the EU enforce others to forget me on a one by one basis as I come across things I want forgotten….but life is too short!
5179	Once Phentermine pills are taken as prescribed by the medical doctor with regards to its timing and dosage, you can bid farewell to those excess fats for good.
5180	Once the BCM programme has been established and the key elements are in place, further work programmes are likely to develop as the maintenance, testing, training and review cycle get under way and the BCP evolves.
5181	Once the individual sessions start, a link opening the respective stream will appear.
5182	Once the liason strategy was in full swing IWRM-net attracted 3 new partners: Onema (Fr), BMFLU (Au) and the Community of Madrid (Es).
5183	Once the transitional period comes to an end, Austria and Luxembourg must move to the automatic exchange of information.
5184	Once you getting married to a this french language person and also seek ship, a person will by way of a rather varying function in contrast as a famous couple the fact dreams on to assist you begin living of this particular language.
5185	Once you have analysed and shared the Statute, you have to fill out some forms.
5186	Once you have finished filming select them all and Deactivate them again.
5187	Once you’re fully qualified, you’re given your quality approved control stamp really.
5188	On clear days you can see the Alps from Monviso to Bernina.
5189	On “Course type” select “Doctoral degree”.
5190	On each island everybody works the prescribed eight hours a day, which means that each society is self-sufficient.
5191	One additional service that has been shown is the Automatic Identification System (AIS) showing all ships and vessels.
5192	One day after the report was published, a friend called me, asking: what exactly said this report?
5193	One decision table generator the United States has tried.
5194	One fallout 2 restoration project patch, a nurse told him that most of the nurses noticed he had been praying with patients.
5195	One I didn’t like so much so I left.
5196	One in four deaths in males aged 15 to 29 years in Europe is attributable to alcohol.
5197	One issue is whether a is generic or manufacturer-specific.
5198	One man was fatally shot after a suspect fired six rounds into his car, which sat at a gas station.
5199	One mode of justification is neo-conceptualism: the invocation of “rights ideology” as a way of disanchoring concepts from their cultural grounding.
5200	One of New York’s foremost commissioners and presenters of experimental art and performance, ISSUE has grown rapidly since its 2003 founding.
5201	One of our main missions is to stimulate networks of journalists across borders.
5202	One of the aims of this project is to propose new wavelets able to preserve significant structures inside scenes such as edges, textures, etc.
5203	One of the bands, Granny 4 Barrel, even dressed as zombies for their performance.
5204	One of the best ways to unclog sinuses is to drink hot tea -- black, green, herbal or decaffeinated, it doesn't matter -- or hot chicken soup throughout the day.
5205	One of the challenged actions pertained to the granting of citizenship of the Republic of Lithuania to Jurij Borisov, born on 17 May 1956 in Russia, residing in Lithuania, by way of exception (see Constitutional Court Case No. 40/03).
5206	One of the critical factors in sustainable urban development is the deficit of knowledge among all actors involved.
5207	One of the findings of the ELIE Project was that migrant entrepreneurs often lack the necessary level of communication, organisation and education skills as well as access to social networks.
5208	One of the Keynote speakers has been Eliezer Dekel from IBM which has stated that computing becomes increasingly integrated into our environment.
5209	One of the main criticisms and findings of the OECD 2007 report on Chilean innovation and research policies was the low business BERD and weak business-university linkages.
5210	One of the main drivers of change is a new mindset which can be characterized as the Venture Garage Mindset.
5211	One of the main goals is to produce tools that are automatic in the sense that once instantiated by a user, they can be repeatedly applied to widely varying problem instances without further user intervention.
5212	‘One of the main issues in dentistry is that the materials we have nowadays for fillings, they always have to be changed,’ she said.
5213	One of the main purposes of the database is to fight “visa shopping”, i.e. the practice of making further visa applications to other EU Member States when a first application has been rejected.
5214	One of the main tasks of the Operation Atalanta units is to collaborate with other European Union agencies, such as EUCAP Nestor, and we are glad to work once again with them in trying to improve capabilities of countries in the Indian Ocean”.
5215	One of the most significant has been the rise in popularity of video-based storytelling, enabled largely by innovations in video production and distribution.
5216	One of the restored, and to a great extent presented, originals consists of the complete exterior plastering of the walls and ceilings; this also being the aspect which is the most apparent at first glance.
5217	One of these factors is the climate zone in which the building stands.
5218	One of these well-meaning care-takers, it may turn out to be, are the regulators who continue to defend SEPA on the basis of unproven assumptions.
5219	One or more indicators are specified for each measure, which are considered for different waste types.
5220	One other scientist said… ) ACS scientist Dennis Malpass wrote: “Your editorial was a disgrace.
5221	One Partner noted that there is a difference between understanding the importance and value of metadata, and getting data owners to create appropriate metadata, regardless of the standard used!
5222	One part of the project objectives will be released on 29th October.
5223	One reason our founders set up SBHA in 1968 was to fight this.
5224	One station is located in the district Rostock Lütten Klein, next to the customer service center of the Rostocker Straßenbahn AG.
5225	One that needs further elaboration is how e-science and computing infrastructure fit with these specific distinct European facilities.
5226	One that says that patriotism is healthy.
5227	One thing I would stress in this context is that food security and resilience to crises is not just about increasing production.
5228	One thing you can do is to check the sheet metal ducting which is usually seen hanging on the floor joists on the ceiling.
5229	On fatherhood, economic conditions and class in Sweden” (Plantin, L., 2007, in Community, Work and Family).
5230	On February 12, the Commission’s plan to ban cloning was criticised by MEPs, who put pressure on Health Commissioner Tonio Borg to launch labels for food from clone offspring.
5231	On growth and social cohesion the Europe 2020 objective of inclusive growth is asking at the same time for the implementation of policies to promote gender equality and to increase labour force participation.
5232	On his show on the public radio station France Inter,… Too few women work in information technology.
5233	On hurlburt, specific widespread producers supplied in relation to 25 persons, three trailers a brimful of gear as well a night motorised hoist.
5234	Online source of modern furniture with free shipping to East Coast and Free in-house assembly.
5235	Only a European federal union can solve the crisis: Federal Union or disintegration Spinelli Group - Shadow Council Conclusions - 28.06.2012 The situation is critical.
5236	Only a few businesses were there to promote their stuff.
5237	Only by voting European Left and Alexis Tsipras there is hope for citizens.
5238	Only energy from renewable sources is used to meet the energy needs of BedZED.
5239	Only exception to that mod would be Tank-Skins but even there people found ways to draw modules/weakpoints on the tanks.
5240	Only few sites per PFTs are display to show the strength and weaknesses of the ORCHIDEE model performances.
5241	Only the best sites of each scene get a chance.
5242	Only the determined efforts of a few dedicated DOE managers (particularly Bob San Martin, the head of the renewable electric programs) kept the programs alive.
5243	Only the present availability of computing petascale resources is making now possible to achieve both these aims.
5244	Only with the strong will for cooperation this challenge can be handled.
5245	On March 3, 2006, after having revised Complainant’s documentary evidences, the respondent denied Complainant’s application for registration of the disputed domain name.
5246	On Monday’s stage eight, a 302km stage that saw the teams leave Argentina and enter Chile, a calm strategic head was certainly required.
5247	On short hauls there are generally few alternatives available and there is less price sensitivity.
5248	On the agenda: the single-member company, the regulation on the movement of public documents, the proposed international trade agreements, registration of ECSs, etc.
5249	On the basis of this report, the Council of the European Union adopted conclusions with policy recommendations and orientation for future action on gender equality.
5250	On the bilateral side there is also clear dynamics in our relations: we had previous round of High Level Dialogue in March.
5251	On the ground of Kant's philosophical arguments it is prooved not possibility of radical atheistical world outlook and that faith's fredom serves social value system formation in the society.
5252	On the less frequently used stations there will also be a shorter boarding time come October.
5253	On the northeast, larch, beech along with norwegian maples increase.
5254	On the one hand, it shows that the Catalan government has a hard time obtaining private funding.
5255	On the one hand, many people around the world will be focused on Sochi.
5256	On the one hand, there is a tendency to conflate the trafficking offence with more or less severe exploitation in order to widen the operative space for crime-prevention measures or awareness-raising campaigns.
5257	On the other hand, AKP carried out an unjust and unfair campaign through unequal means and illicit ways.
5258	On the other hand, if there is fears that Europe’s external borders—for whatever reason—are indeed under threat, the solution is not to build up internal walls again.
5259	On the other hand: it is true that nowadays "professionals use a PC", but calculation prcedures that are intended for use in the context of national/regional building regulations need to be transparent, robust and reproducible.
5260	On the other hand, some severe issues, in the blurred and gray areas are almost left to the fate, because it is very difficult to draw the line of balance between socially aware business and profit.
5261	On the other hand there is adaptation, a strategy that seems to be unavoidable when it comes to dealing with climate change and its consequences.
5262	On the other, her persistence was “punished” by the markets, which reacted rapidly and dramatically to the decisions of the Franco-German meeting on 16 August.
5263	On the other, the rotating EU leadership gives citizens the opportunity for European-wide thinking and shows them that EU policies can be formulated also outside of Brussels”.
5264	On the question what they considered the main goal of teaching history in school around 50% answered patriotism.
5265	On the Republican side it’s no different and it just looks like you have in these elections different factions of the elite or even within the same group, like the CFR, vying for who’s going to have power.
5266	On the right page, Schedel’s chronicle briefly describes the capture of Wenceslaus IV, the Czech and Roman-German King, who is also depicted on the right edge of the book under the heading “Wentzlaw“.
5267	On the south shoreline of the river there is no room for the river to expand.
5268	On the Steering Committee on Archival Access are Karel Berkhoff and Haim Gertner, both also involved in EHRI, Haim Gertner as part of the Executive Team.
5269	On the third line, why is the 0.25 suddenly inside the brackets and where does the 0.75 come from.
5270	On this area, a dike will be built and a flow control system will be installed.
5271	On this occasion, participants will have the opportunity to assess innovative initiatives, access up-to-date information, discuss market trends and envision possible synergies.
5272	On this particular evening, the store was hosting an exclusive cocktail party for Taylor Plimpton, whose new novel, Notes Using the Night: A life After Dark is in stores now.
5273	On Thursday morning the light grey colored Lockheed P-3C ORION launched for the first time into the morning sky.
5274	On top of that, and realistically speaking, I am not sure whether the parties involved are ready to resolve the issue!
5275	On top of that it looks way cooler than the old site!
5276	On Tuesday, Dec, 10th, ValueSec's final conference "Decision Support for Security Policy.
5277	On Tuesday morning, Wang Bo argued for 'daoshu' as a possible alternative for 'zhexue' (philosophy) for categorizing ancient Chinese discussions.
5278	On women in peacebuilding, we will continue to advance women's role in promoting peace and security.
5279	Open access to scientific information.
5280	Open-Bio builds on the results of KBBPPS, refining them and developing further knowledge on implementation of the standardization result in relation to market development.
5281	Open data is meant for anyone to use as they wish, and it is in a form that is easily readable by computer software.
5282	Open data on the sea shore Although data mining for the weather forecast and the sea is well known and organised, the availability to the general public or data mining by volunteers is recent.
5283	OpenDomo claims to be able to achieve 50% energy savings at a very low cost (starting from 400€ per point of sale).
5284	Opening : September 15, 2010, October 30, 2010 CMCC is seeking to appoint a Modeller for global ocean biogeochemical studies.
5285	Open innovation for sustainable business Although the EU leads the world in many research areas, it falls behind in commercialisation of its research results.
5286	OpenLab will continue to promote ETOMIC’s experimental plane interoperability. 2.3.1.2.
5287	OpenOffice.org software is provided under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) and may be used free of charge for any purpose, private or commercial.
5288	Open VLD is criticising the cheap promises made by the parties.
5289	Operate e-commerce of natural products.
5290	Operational realisation modality: - Upgrading the existing modules elaborated along the InnoSupport project.
5291	Opportunities for improving energy efficiency can be found at the production sites as well as both upstream and downstream in the PO, TBA and styrene production chains, and the LEE agreement encourages companies to assess the potential for all of these.
5292	Opportunity for new developments Current therapy (curative and preventive) Antibiotics could be used.
5293	Opportunity for new developments WHO stimulated studies on oral vaccination of dogs (OVD) and the development of safer and effective vaccines and baits for OVD.
5294	Optimization between EPNs is an advanced case which is not yet addressed by the IDEAS demonstration.
5295	Optional whale and dolphin excursion can be booked in advance (32€ adults and 16€ children) There is a 3-day shortbreak to El Teide that can be combined with this trip.
5296	Or Agnes, who was fired after the chemicals in the pesticide corroded her face.
5297	Or, as Adolf Hitler said, if you’re going to lie to the public, tell a BIG lie.
5298	Or do you not read history?
5299	Or even the groups that are trying to get back to a previous time in history where they thought they had some rights.
5300	Or, have you missed that entirely?
5301	Or, I can reduce prices to maintain the same ratio of net income to costs and debt, undercutting the competition.
5302	Or is your garage door stuck in a continuous cycle of opening or closing?
5303	Or should other European countries learn from the successful use of quotas in Scandinavian countries?
5304	Or that could be Arabic or that could be any other.
5305	Or you could learn one of the many, many professions on offer and begin to build your trade.
5306	Other activities of the forum include cultural display and tailored activities aimed to encourage youths and communities initiatives by using sports, education, tourism and other positive means to promote peaceful coexistence.
5307	Other acts shall be adopted on the basis of a Commission proposal where the Treaties so provide.
5308	Other benefits of health insurance apart from being a good tax saving option Cashless Hospitalization: If refers to direct settlement of bills between the health care provider and the hospital if the hospital is on network coverage.
5309	Other butterfly and moth larvae don’t eat maize.
5310	Other celebrities who have already voiced their support for his cause include Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Jason Mraz, Chris Tashima and Robin Williams.
5311	Other facilities like a shared lounge and ski storage are offered.
5312	Other factors such as education, employment and social support, play a role in health of European citizens.
5313	Other features include functional programmability and elasticity as well as integrated content and data access.
5314	OTHER NEWS Europe 2020 strategy headline indicator statistics available On 2 March, Eurostat published a report which provides an overview of trends from 2008 – 2012/2013 in relation to the Europe 2020 strategy headline targets.
5315	Other notable incubators aimed at supporting growth enterprises are, for example, Startup Sauna, the Spinno Enterprise Center and the Aalto Start-Up Center.
5316	Other… On November 27th the first year of Operations and Maintenance of the PRT system at Masdar City was concluded.
5317	Other parts of the work support the deployment of KETs to various industries in the EU regions, for instance, via smart specialisation.
5318	Other plants such as rose and peppermint were steeped in oils until a perfumed unguent formed.
5319	Other presentations will be dedicated to the UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) as an alternative platform for the acquisition of the earth observation data.
5320	Others have written books about it as well, about the education system.
5321	Other stakeholders affected by these operational retrictions include the airlines and the airports.
5322	Other surface water management measures may be built within terraces, but the main purpose of a terrace is to control the flow once the capacity of the other measures is exceeded.
5323	Other sustainable modes of transport such as the bicycle, innovative taxi services etc. must be supported and people must be encouraged changing their travel behavior.
5324	Other technicians and public authorities were invited to the meeting and explained some new regulations concerning the sustainable use of pesticides and integration of agricultural cooperatives.
5325	Other time periods are re-planned according to up-to-date inputs during subsequent planning.
5326	Other TOSCA recommendations include: Provision and training of oil-spill-type-drifters for oil-spill events and CODE-type drifters for search and rescue operations.
5327	Other ways of communicating about energy and climate change do exist, Exhibition : “Beacon regions, cities, neighbourhoods.
5328	Otherwise, data may be "captured" from various sources – as a by-product of people's contact with tax, health or other authorities, and the records that these produce; or from other sources which in some way "capture" their behaviour.
5329	Otherwise, the core definition would either be non-normative, or an award of exemplary damages would be completely arbitrary.
5330	Otherwise, you’ve had it folks.
5331	Ought to you unearth all of the guideline transgressions do say the main submissions or to marketing often the mods your decide one person is going to disassemble it!
5332	Our afternoon debates addressed the following questions: How can initiatives taken by pioneers at the local level be translated to the national and international level.
5333	Our application of indian aunty boobs naked saree removing sex photo give up twenty five dollars a week for.
5334	Our armor gets to be customized which is the only thing that lets us persist even deeper into this science fiction nightmare.
5335	Our attorneys assist clients throughout Georgia with cases involving car, truck & motorcycle accidents, brain injury and premises liability.
5336	Our business laptop and business platforms deliver improved manageability and security for the most demanding business needs.
5337	"Our country is in need of far reaching renewal.
5338	Our efforts focus on census data collected during Greece’s 2011 Census Survey and provided by the Hellenic Statistical Authority.
5339	“Our end customers tend to be small and medium-sized businesses.
5340	“Our entire smart made simple design philosophy is about giving users the easiest, most intuitive computing experience,” said Frederic Frappereau, Global Product Manager, Kensington.
5341	Our exercise today will focus on IDAS4, Orion4 and the Global ContextBroker enablers: To configure and connect your devices to IDAS4 there are three basic steps to cover: 1. Create a Model.
5342	Our experience shows that without this genuine cooperation Cohesion Policy will fail - or at least will not reach the expected results.
5343	Our first year of the PERPETUATE project is ending, and we have already done a lot of work, but much more is yet to come!
5344	Our focus in this shoot is on „near zero energy buildings“.
5345	Our focus was to re-establish Poland’s position in the world.
5346	Our goal is to keep the content of this portal accurate and up-to-date.
5347	Our health club Anaheim Hills offers a wide range of group exercise classes, personal training and a host of other benefits and characteristics.
5348	Our holistic approach provides an added value to the client by increasing the chances to select the most appropriate profile and to the candidates by providing them with a useful feedback.
5349	Our HRV system also comes with a five year guarantee and can be bought online at reduced rates.
5350	Our initial efforts to make navigation more effective have included modifying the way commands are processed and changing the commands that are available to users.
5351	Our knowledgeable academic staff and students are valued by companies to bring a new perspective and insight into the latest engineering developments.
5352	Our log analyses also show that the provider filters are frequently used.
5353	Our Mug Project and reusable to-go boxes aim to eliminate single-use cups and containers from our dining facilities.
5354	Our multidisciplinary approach will enable unprecedented glimpses into the private lives of Renaissance Italians."
5355	Our paid-in capital of €80 billion is the highest among all international financial institutions worldwide.
5356	Our political mandate is to find an honourable, workable compromise.
5357	Our proposed criteria decreased the percentage of non-elusive faults in the faultload, improving its representativeness.
5358	Our results can be useful in understanding the outcomes of related behavioral and electrophysiological studies.
5359	Our resume samples also offer ways in which to linux format new disk your resume towards a specific industry or linux format new disk.
5360	Our role is to assess the environmental and economic impact of actions put in place by all our partners.
5361	Our scientific aims are the development and application of innovative photonic biosensor techniques with enhanced capabilities compared to established methods.
5362	Our services are all confidential and no information is released to anyone without your written consent except in the case of a life-threatening emergency or when it is otherwise required by law.
5363	Our services are tailored to SMEs but are also available to all other businesses, universities and research centres.
5364	Our simulation and prototype system demonstrate the performance, scalability, and robustness of SBC.
5365	Our site can provide you high-quality mower accessories and parts.
5366	Our site is built to comply with W3C/WAI’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0, Conformance Level Double A. EuroGeographics represents 59 National Mapping and Cadastral Agencies from 46 countries across Europe.
5367	Our so called minimum activity is the required number of matches you have to play in between two division updates.
5368	Our telephone calls have been getting monitored probably since the days of Bell's first telephone been given to the public.
5369	Our translating expertise enables us to define quickly and easily cost of Telugu translation and if a document is large and requires specific approach, we can fix the time required for its translation during its appraisal.
5370	Our video tube for all of your devices!
5371	Our voters, are your clients, or sympathisers, but what is most important is that they are the same people - the 500 million Europeans who wish to live in a world which is environmentally friendly."
5372	Our website further gives an insight to the nose retainers prices, besides informing readers about the use of clear nose retainers.
5373	Our workshop consequently focuses on hybrid large-scale systems and how to increase fault-tolerance, reliability and availablity of such systems.
5374	Outcomes are shared with other Cloud Storage standards organisations under the guidance of the SNIA Technical Council and in synergy with the SNIA Strategic Alliances Committee.
5375	Outlook for production, 2014-2023 The Outlook projects an increase in livestock and dairy production, thus also implying greater demand and subsequent production of feed grains and oilseeds for protein.
5376	Outpatient psychosocial interventions cover a range of services, such as counselling, outreach work, psychotherapy, aftercare and reintegration programmes.
5377	Outrage has dominated public reactions to Snowden’s revelations in Europe, though it seems only in Germany has there been any reaction from politicians worth mentioning.
5378	Outside the exhibition halls, a long queue of visitors waited for kicking footballs.
5379	Over 250 of the machines were built, of which only 3 are known to still be in existence.
5380	Over 40 fridge or freezer vans in stock.
5381	Over 45 third party organisations around the world support the 1 Mission 1 Million - Getting to the Heart of Stroke initiative.
5382	Overall, and for several individual processes, we found that biodiversity effects became stronger over time.
5383	Overall conclusion: international climate negotiations have taken a step forward, but only a very small step.
5384	Overall coordination is ensured by two annual meetings of Task Force Chairs with the Executive Board, one at the General Assembly and the other in January in Brussels.
5385	Overall, despite improvements in some specific areas, credit institutions' compliance with disclosure requirements remains unchanged compared to last year's assessment where no bank had fully met all the requirements.
5386	Overall, fish, meat and dairy products were the most important food sources.
5387	Overall, the German BU reported stable revenue of €152.8 million over H1 as a whole (-6.9% in Q1 and +7.7% in Q2) and multiplied its recurring operating margin by 3 to 3.7% in H1-2014.
5388	Over almost three years every person behind these abstract statistics has been betrayed.
5389	Overseas applicants will be required to have achieved an ieLtS score of 6 or equivalent.
5390	Oversight of general aviation involves the army, local and central governments and several ministries and commissions, and achieving broad consensus and co-operation is difficult.
5391	Over the last few months he has seen that the ruling parties in several countries of Central and Eastern Europe have all been re-elected, such as in Hungary in April 2006 and in Latvia in October 2006.
5392	Over time it is perfectly possible that one or two dominant format standards will emerge in this environment.
5393	Over two-thirds of the world’s energy resources are to the south and east of Turkey, while Europe as the world’s largest energy consumer lies to Turkey’s west.
5394	Owing to the wide range of building types represented in non-domestic buildings, a great amount of detailed information will be required.
5395	Owing to this complexity, current state of the art approaches have relatively low retrieval accuracy, thus a fully automated system is still unattainable.
5396	OWL - the Web Ontology Language provides a language for defining structured, Web-based ontologies which delivers richer integration and interoperability of data among descriptive communities.
5397	Ownership in the Turkish Media Market and Conflicts of Interest A media sector must be independent from politics if it is to fulfill its information-dissemination and watchdog functions.
5398	Oxford University began the WW1 family history initiative when it asked people across Britain to bring letters, photographs and keepsakes from the war to be digitised in 2006.
5399	PACKED: That is the current situation but I suppose that the situation was different in the past.
5400	Page 9 Did you know that in Mexico exists 21 Clusters focus on ICT?
5401	Pages using the property "Description" Showing 18 pages using this property.
5402	Paired with the above-mentioned solutions should be further EU guidelines for the Member States willing to introduce legislation improving the quality of volunteering.
5403	Palma will draw on experiences from Aachen and the Baltic Competence Centre.
5404	Panellists included EFFRA members Dr.
5405	Paper presented at the 57th Annual conference of the International Communication Association, San Francisco, CA.
5406	Paperrcaft Portable Document Papercrfat (PDF) is a document format designed by the Adobe company to be compatible with any computer operating system.
5407	Papers need to be uploaded by EDAS selecting “GC 13 WS - IWCPM”.
5408	Papers presented at the symposium are eligible for publication as part of a digital or paperback book.
5409	Papers under review elsewhere must not be submitted to the workshop.
5410	Parallel diplomatic discussions were conducted with Denmark, Ireland and Norway, whose economies remained closely connected to the British market, particularly under the European Free Trade Association (EFTA).
5411	“Parents are being secretly judged on their views on race and diversity while in hospital with their newborn babies under the SNP Government’s latest assault on family life.”
5412	Parents have to pay huge amounts themselves, while national residents and officials of children in the European School have nothing to pay.
5413	Parina Douzina Stiakaki on May 31, 2012 at 16:52 said: This is a very forceful interview and, unfortunately, spot on.
5414	Paris, 17 March 2015) draws direct attention to the immediate challenge of social cohesion, citizenship and non-discrimination in Europe today.
5415	Paris: PrestoCentre Training Course 2011 PrestoCentre organises as part of its Professional Development Training Series a coursein "Long-Term Audiovisual Digital Preservation: Strategy, Planning & Tools".
5416	Parliament has the final say on many areas of expenditure in the EU’s annual budget.
5417	Parliament Speaker Jakup Krasniqi said that ICG's suggestion for special status of northern Kosovo is not acceptable for Kosovo institutions.
5418	Participants agreed that the role of International Financial Institutions was important for attracting private investors.
5419	Participants also discussed how to evaluate whether a country has an enabling environment for civil society.
5420	Participants broadened their programming skills, and joined a network of now 300 Atelier Alumni from 63 countries.
5421	Participants choose between a set of: The role of procurement in a clean transport strategy.
5422	Participants from workshop Art and Apparatus I will gather in Ronneby and Karlshamn in Blekinge, Sweden to get their hands on water-cutting machines, 3D-printers and 3D scanners.
5423	Participants have remarked the importance of accessing all relevant information on who uses the water, how and why; given that we can't manage future changes if we don't know what happens in our basins today.
5424	Participants should be able and willing to step outside the world of books into what theories imply for real-life situations.
5425	Particular attention needs to be paid to the cause-effect relationships – and to the processes that define these relationships at the scale at which the analysis is conducted - when selecting these cross-linkages.
5426	Particular fishing cutters had their individual things (an example from cuter 166: they tried never to go to sea on a Saturday, or from cutter 138: chicken for dinner always meant a storm).
5427	Particularly vacancies in the field of Chinese studies and information on grants and scholarships are welcome.
5428	Partner contribution to the project Cyprus University of Technology will supply EuropeanaPhotography with highlight pictures from Cyprus cultural institutions and photo-archives.
5429	Partnering brings together the public sector at European, national and regional levels in public-public partnerships ("P2Ps") as well as the public and private sector in public-private partnerships ("PPPs").
5430	Partnerships, intense collaboration and dedicated funding are necessary to push these vaccines through the various stages of development and evaluation.
5431	Partners share their expertise, experience and knowledge to set up pilot tests, actions of place making and long-term structures of place management that will guarantee the long-term success of public spaces.
5432	Partners showed interest as they are in need of best practices that 1) can be used to convince people/politicians for a more integrated approach, 2) offer ideas for better solutions in sustainable development.
5433	Partners will define the needs, directions and methods of human capacity development, investigate the main pathways to embed these into the innovation chain which is a pre- condition to more and better jobs.
5434	Part of the reason is they are a composite of what society has conditioned them to be and the culture that they were born into has conditioned them to be.
5435	Part of the receptor, projecting from the cell wall, is based on an antibody that can identify a cancer cell.
5436	Part two examines the relationship between social welfare and crime control through the lens ofsocial justice.
5437	“Passing this bill would fly in the face of Ukraine’s international obligations to protect the right to freedom of expression and prohibit discrimination,” added Tucker.
5438	PATHS SUEDL Workshop - Call for Papers The Call for Papers for the The 2nd International Workshop on Supporting Users Exploration of Digital Libraries is now open.
5439	Patient feels a lot better during his daily exercise."
5440	Patients are much happier and running a lean operation allows them to provide care very affordably.
5441	Patients may then develop severe pneumonia which is not responsive to antibiotic treatment with penicillins or aminoglycosides.
5442	Patient-specific simulation as a basis for clinical decision-making.
5443	Patrik Johansson: Yes, there is more of traditional heavy metal elements on this album and maybe a little less Power Metal.
5444	Paul Breckell, chief executive of Action on Hearing Loss, said: "We are disappointed that the formula used by the Vaccine Damage Payments Unit does not fully recognise the impact for Katie..
5445	Paul RÜBIG MEP stated SMEs are synonym of dynamism, creativity and innovation, that is, entrepreneurship.
5446	Paul Smyth February 22nd, 2012 Phạm Lê Quốc Việt March 20th, 2013 lets banks save banks, th’as all, saving banks is not the function of public sector Hamza Serry-Senhaji March 20th, 2013 Banks should be allowed to go bust.
5447	Paul Volcker’s rejoinder to the accusation of not having grasped the importance of the SIFIs’ financial innovations was to suggest that the only innovation he has ever seen is the… ATM.
5448	Pay is subject to Community tax and other deductions laid down in the Staff Regulations.
5449	Payment Transaction Processing At the end of each chapter a number of FAQs raised by bankers across Europe are being answered.
5450	PayPal purchases will be refunded back to your PayPal account.
5451	PC Game Fix Crack for NBA 2k13 v1.
5452	PDF2Text Pilot text extractor provides you with faster method who wrote the name of this book is secret extracting naame from PDF documents.
5453	PDF generated on 07 Jul 2015, 02:48 PM Sign up to receive our reports (print and/or electronic) and quarterly e-newsletter.
5454	Peat undergoes fermentation with the result that its words is a necessary all who. suhaagrat mein vivi ko kaise chudai kare lot of times lord treasurers means to moment would have been of falling.
5455	PE International and Wuppertal Institute are contractors for this study.
5456	People are deprived of their possessions and of their social ties, and left without access to work, education and health facilities.
5457	People created, communicated, and that was true joy 2000 of it.
5458	People have two and don't use them.
5459	People like you only hurt unity and progress!
5460	People really think that they are born free.
5461	People representing research institutes, private sector, Ngo’s, government and several European advisory councils participated in the event.
5462	People’s feelings of disenfranchisement were given a clear cause.
5463	People should have opportunities to learn about the importance and methods of creativity development not only from non-formal educational trainings.
5464	People were still too nationalistic.
5465	People who experience hives try lots of things to ease the painful rash, such as creams, pills, hot showers, even steroids but people are different and often experience varying responses to treatment.
5466	People who provide support for Helen have put together list of important to Helen and important for Helen and items were sorted into two groups: What is working in Helen‘s current life situation and what does not work?
5467	People who've done some of the Great Work and proven their worth.
5468	People will vote the way they feel is right.
5469	People with disabilities are one of the most vulnerable, socially isolated groups in the whole population.
5470	PEPPOL representatives provided practical insights into the solutions developed.
5471	Perhaps it never will be; perhaps it doesn’t need to be.
5472	Perhaps justifiably, because they see works in which ‘beauty has burnt her face’.
5473	Perhaps something different is evolving on a parallel track, something which later actually could change the world for the better.
5474	Perhaps this is simply because people who already had their ACs did not visit this webpage afterwards?
5475	Permanently I was going to university.
5476	Per Nilsson, Tetra Laval (Foto: Eric Sandström, Municipality of Karlshamn) Sven-Åke Svensson, Mayor of Karlshamn and Vice Chairman of the EWTC Association, was very happy to welcome the participants to Karlshamn, the very center of the development.
5477	Personal computers use a number of chips mounted on st-100 fill in form main circuit board.
5478	Personalised medicine aims to improve this situation by providing the right diagnosis leading to prevention or to treatment at the right dose to the right patient at the right time.
5479	Personalised medicine will only be successful when accurate diagnostic tests identify the patients who can benefit from targeted therapies and eventually reach the desired goal of prevention and prediction.
5480	Personalized Services / Newsletter Insofar as you have decided to take advantage of a personalized service such as subscribing to newsletter services, completing contact forms or creating guestbook entries, the required personal data are stored.
5481	Perspectives for improvement in the next phase of the APF are identified, including better coordination with other African partners, especially in the G8 and UN framework.
5482	Perspectives on drugs: can mass media campaigns prevent young people from using drugs?
5483	Perturbation theory Solving equations by Taylor series Not surprisingly, having a Taylor approximation to a function is most useful when one does not have an exact formula for the function.
5484	Pesticide exposure linked to lower IQ in children (A: That’s another thing they wanted too.
5485	Pesticides, like pharmaceuticals, are the most thoroughly tested chemicals in the world, and only those that pass strict government testing are authorised for use.
5486	PETERSBURG presents a ballet performance of “Anna Karenina” – also expected to perform a breathtaking show at the Courtyard of the two Temples.
5487	Peter Westbroek is one of the paragons of geobiology and is, among present-day geobiologists, a true leader and visionary.
5488	PG on June 5, 2011 at 16:06 said: I strongly agree with the general idea, the existence of an inherent error in modeling social phenomena and I’m glad that an economist puts it clearly.
5489	Phase 1. Stakeholder consultation - September 15 to October 26. In the Stakeholder Consultation we are looking for responses that represent a corporate view, rather than the views of individuals.
5490	Phase Three – Commercialisation SMEs will received extensive support, training, mentorship and facilitation of access to risk finance, as the project is further polished into a marketable product.
5491	Phil also co-edited the conference proceedings.
5492	Philbert p bruillard, bishop using grenoble, italy, plus now function within a 25 region.
5493	Philippe is the co-founder of UbiQuity, the network of independent IP lawyers, which spans across Europe and Asia.
5494	Philippe Schulz, an expert in energy and raw materials at French carmaker Renault, believes the hype around rare earths will have evaporated three years from now.
5495	Philippe Starck is a creator, artistic director and designer, whose interest embraces architecture, interiors, furniture, high-tech, clothes, vehicles etc.
5496	Philosophy analyses broad ideas around human life and the nature of existence.
5497	Phishing websites can be very convincing, so make sure you’re on the right site before submitting any personal information, or buying anything.
5498	Photo: André Künzelmann/ UFZ According to the publication, particularly streams in the Mediterranean, the USA, Central America and Southeast Asia are at risk.
5499	Photo credit: Stock graphics copyright Vectorstock.com The high levels of capitalisation in industrial agriculture and systemic volatility in the European economy means that many aspiring new entrants cannot step forward and rejuvenate the sector.
5500	Photo: Europe's Information Society Thematic Portal Final report of the EC i2010 Digital Libraries Expert Group ARROW System development.
5501	Photo: Karin Tilch In cooperation with the DPZ, the Society has since 1988 awarded the DPZ Sponsorship Award to young scientists who have conducted research with or about non-human primates.
5502	Photos from the event are available on the Inclusion Europe Facebook page.
5503	Photos & Graphics / Painting & Drawing Create quality Windows XP and Macintosh icons with Axialis IconWorkshop!
5504	Photo: Ulrich Eichelmann Forests on Borneo are growing on peat soil.
5505	Physical systems are specified by differential equations involving relations between physical quantities.
5506	Physics, mathematics, or other backgrounds will also be considered on a case-by-case basis.
5507	Phytoscreening and soil gas measurements are rapid and inexpensive pre-screening methods.
5508	Picture below: European Marine Board members, observers and secretariat at the Spring 2014 Plenary Meeting, May 2014, Brest, France (credit S. Hervé / UBO).
5509	Picture Guide to Chapter 8 Photosynthesis.
5510	Picture lush grasslands with a unique population of flora and fauna, some of which is found nowhere else on Earth.
5511	Pictures of the ERA Conference can be found here.
5512	Pierre-Yves Desaive: Everything we do basically involves some kind of international collaboration: when we organise an exhibition we receive loans from foreign institutions, or we loan works to foreign institutions.
5513	Piet Demeester from iMinds, Belgium, presented the work of the new FIRE flagship project, Fed4FIRE, which aims to consolidate most control and management frameworks as well as the monitoring options of the current FIRE facilities.
5514	Pike said himself, who don’t know that they’re fools.
5515	PiMS is one of the pilot activities carried out as part of the technical integration effort of BioMedBridges.
5516	Pipe of the SKAPEX line numbered "1" with the characteristic threaded bowl screwed into a ebonite holder/shank.
5517	Place a doormat near your classic car gates.
5518	Place the steam basket back onto the inner bowl and fill the basket with the recipe ingredients.
5519	Planned at a secret meeting in 1910 on Jekyll Island, Georgia, by a group of bankers and politicians, including Colonel House, it transfers the power to create money from the American government to a private group of bankers.
5520	Planning groups have been established to cooperate with all stakeholders, with regular input meetings along the way.
5521	Player is not included in overall rating.
5522	Playing this game is spending half day on a queue then u propably get one on one awesome battle no wonder this game is fail.
5523	Playing together, being together, will end.
5524	Please add yourself to this list by editing this page.
5525	Please ask your question on the forum of the EMA Charity Fundraising Competition group on the EMA Community website.
5526	Please bear in mind that many assembly language codes for 8086 are undergoing underwriting changes currently.
5527	Please be informed that the Invitation to Tender will be open only to the entities established in the ESA ARTES 20 Participating States and EDA participating Member States.
5528	Please click here to download the minutes of the Seminar and on the links below for the presentations that were given.
5529	Please consider what the following cannabis legalization organizations have to say.
5530	Please contact sales@ellisys.com for pricing information.
5531	Please contact the EMFA members directly for this information.
5532	Please enter your city.
5533	Please explicitly mention if the sample was in D2O, the isotope labeling scheme, and include sweep widths and carrier frequency (in ppm) in each frequency dimension.
5534	Please Feedback on the EPC Newsletter Topics Most Important to You - Take a minute and participate in the poll to let us know what information you would like to see more of!
5535	Please feel free to distribute these leaflets or to request copies from the COBWEB project team.
5536	Please find below a table summarizing all the needs expressed and the completed needs' sheet.
5537	Please Find here Attached the ERRIN Projects PROFILE.
5538	Please find more information on the GGUS web site. 4. Is the release I installed still supported?
5539	Please follow this link to read more: EEVC-2012 The ESTRELIA project was presented on the EKC Conference 2012.
5540	Please forward this article.
5541	Please help us Boris.
5542	Please note that SAS runescape hunter lvling guide is not sold at off-the-shelf retail locations, so we encourage you to engage with indian jyotish prediction directly.
5543	Please note that you may only display logos in line with the Trusted Shops conditions of membership or after we have given permission.
5544	Please note the following requisites for your application: please provide all documents in electronic format, including the investigator’s brochures and the risk management plan (if any).
5545	Please read more about the main areas of analysis and the main results envisaged on the next page.
5546	Please refer to individual course listings for further information.
5547	Please refer to this presentation about the new structure and membership opportunities.
5548	Please register before 11 March 2013.
5549	Please remember that the longer the project has passed, the less relevant the information will be.
5550	Please see the section on Customs Procedures and Regulations for details.
5551	Please select one of the tabs below according to your interest.
5552	Please send an e-mail to Veerle Vandeveire if you would have any questions.
5553	Please share here your offers to volunteer, sharing of good practice and willingness to partner in projects.
5554	Please support and forward our Avaaz-petition for a citizen-friendly European Citizens’ Initiative to all your friends.
5555	Please take note: The AER Equal Opportunities Forum will take place on 21st April in Strasbourg.
5556	Plenary round up: economic reforms in France and Greece - Russia-Ukraine -Venezuela The EPP Group is pressing the French government to implement tough spending and structural reforms which other EU members must follow, such as Greece and Portugal.
5557	Plug in the USB disk into your own computer and identify its device name.
5558	Plus government will also be for the most part providing security.
5559	Pobřežní 249/46, Praha (Prague 8-Karlín) We offer accommodation in 788 guest rooms.
5560	Podemos has promoted the biggest political quake since the end of Franco’s dictatorship.
5561	Pointing out a lack of political leadership and a worrying dependence on the undemocratic power of credit rating agencies, President Rasmussen called for a major shift in the economic policy at national and international level.
5562	Poland has also done a lot to improve primary and secondary education.
5563	Poland would extend more westwards, losing territory in the east, to be taken over by the Soviet Union, whilst gaining some eastern German provinces.
5564	Poles don’t build cities any more.
5565	Police leaders last night said the project, which has been gradually rolled out nationally, is now recognised as a vital tool in protecting communities.
5566	Police officers and court officials often seem unsure about their duties and ultimately what they can disseminate in terms of information, e.g. court records, minutes of preliminary investigations, and/or annexes to these minutes.
5567	Police would have to change their whole outlook on what they were there for, but also, mainly the public would have to be trained to accept this new outlook as well, as though it were normal.
5568	Policy and Culture In all Eastern Partnership countries civil society expresses the need for culture policy reforms.
5569	Policymakers should not let this opportunity go to waste.
5570	Policy solutions that have worked well in an economic niche are not necessarily suited to guide economic development on a broad scale; instruments that have co-existed well on a small scale may conflict when scaled up to an economywide level.
5571	Political advisers must be able to foresee, measure and evaluate the consequences of the regulatory initiatives that they promote or the programmes they implement.
5572	Political failure, organisational success Czech officials told EurActiv.cz that "the presidency failed to promote its partial successes".
5573	Politically it serves as a brake on ambition not a stimulus, especially when accompanied by an aversion, also evident in your speech, to hard caps on emissions.
5574	Politicians in Belgrade keep on saying that the dialogue is the only way to find a solution to the problem and this could be achieved only by peaceful means.
5575	« Pondering Technology E-mail (will not be published) (required) The PEP-NET Blog uses the gravatar service to display your picture next to comments!
5576	Pondering the answers to these and other questions is a great way to “We know a lot about the universe.
5577	Pool definition may be subject to change by EGI or RP according to a specific policy The Resource Provider (RP) offers through service abstractions (e.
5578	Poor home inhabitants were helping Jews with their commerce in this area, as well as in Prague and Bavaria.
5579	Popelka Law Group proffers custom-made client service as well as expert legal representation in cases pertaining to corporate law, employment law, and the like.
5580	Popular justice in Europe (18th-19th Centuries) JavaScript is disabled for your browser.
5581	Poroshenko has to tread carefully to reestablish a balance between Ukraine’s regional and societal divisions.
5582	Portraitist Ramon Casas and modernist Isidre Nonell contributed to the international pictorial avant-garde.
5583	Positive effects of BEPP intervention were not only the changes in posttraumatic stress reactions, but also included the increase of subjective well-being, better functioning, and the decline of problems and destructive tendencies.
5584	Positive psychology focuses on a persons strengths rather than their weaknesses (which is more the domain of clinical psychology) and how the exercise of these strengths leads to an engaged and rewarding life.
5585	Possible new financing schemes and models will have to be developed.
5586	Possibly some morning school drop-offs will be required depending on my work schedule.
5587	Post appreciated in the knee dark-colored boot styles, stylish, a plan challenging layer, in addition to stretched T-shirt in addition to polo great deals Polo polo ralph lauren Hats art print jeans in addition to reddish (.
5588	Post-Copy Migration How to maintain high availability even during life migration?
5589	Posted by: Judy Dempsey Wednesday, May 27, 2015 Every week, a selection of leading experts answer a new question from Judy Dempsey on the foreign and security policy challenges shaping Europe’s role in the world.
5590	Posted on July 15, 2013 by sarah kupke — No Comments ↓ slama grad – being the change we want to see in the world Posted on July 13, 2013 by Helene Glatter-Götz — No Comments ↓ Almost a week is over since I came back from Osijek.
5591	Posted on June 12, 2013 by Björn — No Comments ↓ 2013.08.31 Celebration at the Danube Delta 2013.08.31 Where the Danube flows into the Black Sea 2013.08.17 Dinner talk with Mrs.
5592	Posted on June 21, 2015May 12, 2015Author adminTags Internal Medicine Your email address will not be published.
5593	Posted on September 7, 2014September 8, 2014 by Carolin Bohn Posted in Timisoara 1 Comment Hearing that this prison is still in function comes as a surprise for me.
5594	Posters explain the research done at CERN, and visitors can participate in a treasure hunt, the "LHC Mission", using interactive terminals on each platform.
5595	Post judgment interest is morning he added.
5596	Potential exploitation strategy: Effective exploitation of the results of the CloudScale project depends on the impact the project can have in the domain of scalability in the Cloud.
5597	Potential Funding: supported by NSF of China, China 863 program and industry.
5598	Potentially integrating heterogeneous resources from the IMS testbeds, with e.g. PlanetLab or LTE-enabled resources.
5599	Pour oil on top of everything and cut the baklava in cube and diamond pieces.
5600	Pour the herbal crème fraîche over it.
5601	PowerDosh is a fresh site that focuses on how to make your business more efficient to earn you more money, or how you can make money from your existing assets.
5602	PowerShell PowerShell offers much more flexibility for renaming files in a command-line environment.
5603	Practical importance of law on contracts is undisputed in the contemporary market economy.
5604	Practical information concerning the Summer Schools 2012: please click HERE.
5605	Practice shows that a strong civil society, in particular when organised, is the best guarantee of success.
5606	Prague astronomical clock is the only one in the world capable of measuring this time.
5607	Pre-arranging bilateral meetings (30 minutes per meetings) About three weeks before the event you can request meetings and will receive meeting requests.
5608	PreDiCTing the best treatment regimens We need a way to facilitate the complex decisions around which doses and combinations of new drugs should enter clinical trials, and that’s where the PreDiCT-TB project will focus its combined resources.
5609	Preliminary results show that combination of RED and ECN schemes with network-selection strategies for storage-based routing is really promising and outperform other solutions in terms of reliability, network resource utilisation and power consumption.
5610	Preparatory studies carried out in the 1990s, ahead of the PNNS, demonstrated that a very small health education budget spent during primary education years could generate huge health budget savings.
5611	Preparing for LIFE's new Climate Action sub-programme The fourth most-read article appeared in the May 2013 edition of the newsletter and focused on the important issue of how best to combine the demands of farming with the needs of nature conservation.
5612	Presentation City One Minutes in Brussels Look at the whole world in a couple of minutes!
5613	Presentations and panel discussions addressed issues of waste management and treatment, environmental governance, urban planning and design, tools for cleaner urban production.
5614	“Presenting research projects in an international trade show like EMO Hannover serves the purpose of highlighting the common goals of industrialists, researchers, policy-makers and academia,” says Mr.
5615	Presently, coding techniques are being applied on our websites for authentification only.
5616	Present temp of nanopowders’ development enjoin us on cooperation with laboratories, universities, researching centers not only in India.
5617	"President Iohannis has today asked for the PM's resignation.
5618	President Van den Brande remarked: "The Lisbon Monitoring Platform is a significant asset because it is focused on results and ensures that the Lisbon Strategy is implemented in the optimum way."
5619	"President Yanukovych seems to want to take away the hope of millions of Ukrainian citizens for social progress and a European future for the country.
5620	Press the right mouse button to shown the main WriteMonkey menu.
5621	Pretend to unveil the method or stick mixes.
5622	Previously, he spent three years working in research activities within the optical communications group from the UPC.
5623	Previously, the coexistence measures passed by member states had to be ‘appropriate’ for keeping adventitious, technically unavoidable GMO inputs in conventional crops below the EU-wide labelling threshold of 0.9 per cent.
5624	Previous research has already shown how the ecological structure and function of lakes can be damaged by external changes such as the influx of certain nutrients, increased sediment load and climate change.
5625	Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will discuss the matter with French President Francois Hollande and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whom he is supposed to meet next week.
5626	Prime Minister, Lars Lokke Rasmussen, said last month that action must be taken “so that the influx of asylum-seekers and people coming here through family reunification is brought under control.”
5627	Prince Charles is the first one that publicly mentioned it - again, get someone well known to mention it – public/private partnerships… where the public pay for everything.
5628	Principled Technologies is the publisher of the XPRT family of benchmarks.
5629	Printing clipping list documents You can print the list of clipped documents in the same format as the clipping list displays or you can print the actual content of these documents.
5630	Printing the impossible triangle: the copyright implications of three-dimensional printing / Brian Rideout, Journal of Business, Entrepreneurship and the Law, 2011, 19 p. see especially ” IV.
5631	Print quotes about spring, or newness, and paste them around a light green board.
5632	Prioritisation process is often very challenging as besides setting the RIS3 priorities it unmistakenly deprioritise some others.
5633	• Prioritize the work needed to implement this strategy?
5634	Prior to joining Havas, Guido worked in Nielsen and in MEC.
5635	Prior to Moovly, Geert founded and ran the digital communications agency Instruxion (2001-2012) and served as Head of Training at Cisco Europe (1992-2001).
5636	Prior to taking action, though, it’s crucial that you look into your options.
5637	Prix termes sous pertes marrons avec clomid d’enflammer qu’il natural ways to increase penis size Head over to www.hungry4change.eu for your chance to join the debate on the future of sustainable agricultural productivity in Europe.
5638	Procedural factors the Panel considers relevant: N/a XII.
5639	Procerin is a proven product which generally helps in getting rid from the fall of hair in general and partial loss of hair.
5640	Procès refers to the positioning of the parties before a judge, on a différend.
5641	Processing is done using a bag of features model, with all of the features mixed together, which is why it is important to not have any name conflicts.
5642	Processing office document workflows without delays speeds up the administrative process.
5643	Producing development is no easy task.
5644	Production costs are heavily influenced by how easy or difficult it is to do this.
5645	Production systems should not have compilers installed.
5646	Product safety and environmental concerns are the main drivers behind EU legal requirements for pipes and process equipment.
5647	Products being acquired in Europe are still subject to approval by European anti-trust authorities.
5648	Products from the IBI run cycle corresponding to Sun, 25th will be make available as soon as we got re-run the cycle.
5649	•Professional Development Semester - During the Professional Development semester of the program, students will be able to create and implement their own events and programs on Cultural Diplomacy.
5650	Professor Anne Beeldens (KU Leuven) presented relevant projects demonstrating the role of concrete pavements in air purification and inductive charging of vehicles.
5651	Professor Dower repeated the call which ARC has been making since July 2010, for a paradigm shift in agriculture.
5652	Professor Johan Hofkens, University of Leuven, Belgium They are now investigating whether the technique can be used to detect the early signs of cancer from a blood sample.
5653	Professor John Ikenberry from Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School.
5654	Professor Toby Norris is an electrical engineer who has worked in industry and at university.
5655	Profile of staff engaged in the project: Dr Dermot Diamond received his PhD and DSc from Queen’s University Belfast (Chemical Sensors, 1987, Internet Scale Sensing, 2002), and was Vice-President for Research at Dublin City University (2002- 2004).
5656	Proform instruction manual the chase, a supporter is destroyed, which leads to the kingdom collapsing.
5657	Prof Tsakris is an author of more than 250 peer-reviewed research articles.
5658	Prof. von Witzke kicked off the discussion with a withering account of the neglect of productivity in agricultural policies in Europe in recent years.
5659	Program management will be supported by LIOF Development Company and financed by the province of Limburg.
5660	Programmes for high-risk groups, and for bar staff in the context of recreational nightlife training activities, are also being implemented.
5661	Project activities will foster cutting-edge research and technology through the use of innovative light sources (ILS’s).
5662	Project documents (requires login) » In WP1 we will define the magnetic nanoparticle systems that will be later synthesized (WP3) and analysed (WP4) in the project.
5663	Project info Partners Our Service Our projects Press page Contact us Brussels to set EU clean cars strategy The communication should be published in time for a 25-26 May meeting of EU ministers in charge of competitiveness.
5664	Project proposal responses would need to be submitted by the end of Q1 of 2014 - which was why brokerage needed to start now."
5665	• Projects have a duration of up to 24 months.
5666	Projects must represent a significant innovation for the company concerned and significant risks should be associated with the challenge of developing a new product, process or service.
5667	Projects of this kind should not be left to the last moment,” said Benoît Cœuré, Member of the Executive Board of the ECB.
5668	Project starts April 2013 Apartment blocks in each participating country are signed up to the project as case studies.
5669	Project work will be done in two sequential phases.
5670	Pro-Master is open 24/7 for emergency garage door repair and installation.
5671	Promoting the use of Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds for energy investments in New Member States.
5672	Promotional activities were carried out in the city of Malbork and in the Trabki Wielkie commune with their organisational support - both are partners in the ELMOS project - and in the Przywidz and Gniewino communes.
5673	Promotional Platform for short sea shipping and intermodality.
5674	Prompt effects are those seen immediately after large doses of radiation delivered over a short period of time.
5675	Propellerhead reason 4 manual pdf used a skip here.
5676	Proposals may include, but are not limited to the following topics: Please send proposals of no more than 300 words, including a one-page CV with contact details (mail, email and telephone) and information regarding institutional affiliation.
5677	Providers Welfare agencies (e.g. German Red Cross and Diakonie) Welfare agencies offer services for elderly and people in need of care.
5678	Provides also information on resolution of source material from which the boundary has been derived.
5679	Providing a forum for people from different parts of Europe to give their reactions and exchange views – in a unity of action, time and place – is one way of seeking an answer to the question ‘What does being a European citizen mean in today’s world?’
5680	Providing content to publishers.
5681	Providing your e-mail address will help us a lot in contacting you.
5682	Provincial and patriotic, with beauty pageants and demolition derbies, polka dances and daredevil shows, these rural exhibitions reflect the traditional values, and the countrified culture, of America's Heartland.
5683	PS: just being sarcastic, of course I think it should be legal: no slavery, no human trafficking, girls could be legal and pay taxes, contribute to the health systems and have access to them.
5684	Public green spaces are not abound.
5685	Public Group active 3 years, 7 months ago ago Led Rope Lighting – TheLAShop.
5686	Public participation in energy policy and decision making needs to increase.
5687	Public perceptions, commercial use, research, and even regulatory approaches vary among the European Union’s (EU) 27 countries.
5688	Public understanding of the importance of using health data for research is crucial to advancing drug discovery and improving patient care.
5689	Published by Yannick Régnier on 25.09.2013 This field intentionally left blank.
5690	Published in all languages of the project.
5691	Published on 18 October 2013 - Read more Author Societies: Two Spanish initiatives to follow Want to know more about author societies’ activities in Spain?
5692	Published on 28 July 2014 in Success Stories Nuclear fusion is a promising source of massive and clean energy for humanity.
5693	Publishes “Endeavour” quarterly, which aims to introduce the readers to the literary output of Albanian intellectuals of the prewar era and to initiate an open debate about the current issues.
5694	Pudgie, Bobby, George, and I were old pals.
5695	Purchasing are also smokers.
5696	PUSH Europe will seek to help supported housing practitioners cooperate and make full use of opportunities within the EU framework.
5697	Putin is ready to continue irritating the West.
5698	Put in the eggplant, and season with salt and pepper.
5699	Put simply, if you do this to a flimsy state (like Greece’s) it quickly turns into a failed, unreformable state – which is what happened.
5700	Put the community before their religious fractions?
5701	"Putting the citizen at the centre, through pace and scale," is Kent's mission for its 1.5 million inhabitants voiced by Robert Stewart, Integration pioneer steering group chair.
5702	Puzzle Prizes are listed on the prize page.
5703	Q3.3: Would it be possible for private businesses to make website activity or CCTV feeds available to INDECT?
5704	Q. Is there planned to be multi core cpu and SLI support?
5705	QoSMOS has received funding from the European Community's Seventh Framework Programme (FP7-ICT-2009-4) under grant agreement number ICT-248454, which is reflected by the use of the European Community's FP7 logo on this website.
5706	Quadrant's Vespel SP-1 materials exemplifies our philosophy of developing the best product for every application environment.
5707	Quality and reliability It is important that the quality of supplies be maintained consistent is it has a general effect on the building’s quality.
5708	Quality internships: what business can do?
5709	Queen Mary and Lloyd George are quoted stressing their importance.
5710	Question: Do the participating regions identify core pre-requisites for a successful implementation of their regional policy in the domain tackled?
5711	Question like the following will be answered: How do you connect to the PEPPOL infrastructure?
5712	Questions 21 22, 26 and 27 focus on this issue.
5713	Questions, well known to landscape ecologists, include How do we define a landscape?
5714	Question to O'Reilly: How did you do it?
5715	Question: What is the fee for clinical investigation notification in the Czech Republic?
5716	Question would be, could i acknowledge that there is that same trail throughout the neighborhood?
5717	Quigley said it himself, a professor who taught lots of diplomats for the United States.
5718	Quite a few opt to buy their own ammunition by using this method, because they recognize the ammo will not go to waste.
5719	Quite simple and we all have to go green, green and cut back because we are the problem.
5720	Q: What about the mobile battery, bandwidth or memory?
5721	Q What is the difference between the revised Form I-9 and the old one.
5722	R0K0F4022C000BR (V850E2/ML4 CPU board) R0K572390C000BR/020BR is a CPU board designed for evaluating the features and performance of the SH7239.
5723	R12: Non-acute, Non-24 hours physician cover, Indefinite stay, Daily support.
5724	Raffaello Napoleone from Pitti Immagine provides an interesting viewpoint on fashion and culture from the perspective of a fashion trade fair organizer.
5725	RAID 6 is comparable with RAID 5, but uses two parity blocks distributed across all drives.
5726	Raindance Film Festival is one of Europe’s leading independent film festivals.
5727	@rainerplaninc active 12 months ago Sorry, there were no forum topics found.
5728	« Ralph Lauren Enfant Google Maps Titleist Driver 915 D3-Cheap enter to win tickets by filling out a small entry form 5l »
5729	Rapidly Integrating Services into the Linked Data Cloud Matteo Palmonari.
5730	Rare Books Talk ward christmas party program Samuel in Brightwall Village (the librarian at the Academy) to initiate a Side Quest called "The Pen is Mightier.
5731	Rated from no infrastructure/cyclists relegated to using car lanes to high level of safe, separated cycle tracks.
5732	Rather than maintain political power by providing a future vision of Greece to citizens they subsidized and handed out gifts to their clients for votes.
5733	Ravi founded the firm in 1993.
5734	RBS is the local and city trains and operator, managing, among the others, the lines of Bern S-bahn.
5735	RCUB has the central position in the star shape topology, connecting the Computing Centres of other Universities in Serbia, as well as a more then 120 scientific, research and education institutes in Belgrade.
5736	Reacting to the outcome, MEP Sven Giegold, shadow rapporteur and financial and economic policy spokesperson of the Greens/EFA group commented: “The compromise gives users of insurance products much better consumer rights across the EU.
5737	Reactions to Trilogue Conclusions 26 June 2013 European Union publications Update on the European Parliament’s ‘Dess’ Report The Future of LEADER – An inside view by Robert Lukesch CAP Simplification – simply destroying greening?
5738	Reaction to EFSA opinion on nutrient profiles CIAA welcomes today’s scientific opinion from EFSA.
5739	Read about dect phones, digital telephonesand digital home phones.
5740	Read all the articles at the website of the reportingproject.
5741	Read Download (downloaded - 239) Virgilijus Valančius.
5742	Read Download (downloaded - 252) Rasa Paužaitė.
5743	Read here the entire press release of July 1, 2013 Innovative textiles to boost EU seaweed farming 4-9-2014 - European Commission Press Release Caption: A diver inspects seaweed growing at AT~SEA’s test site near Galway, Ireland.
5744	Read it to see what's been going on in Europe in the field of CCS (NER300, CO2 storage updates, a CCS documentary of the BBC, etc.).
5745	Read more 04 Feb 2012 Hits:2169 Lithuania The development of the Wide Span Technology is a concept being designed and tested by..
5746	Read more about the Kirkipinar Oil Wrestling here Inva Mula, born in Tirana, Albania in 1963, is one of the leading sopranos of her generation.
5747	Read more about the system settings.
5748	Read more An information resource of images of the investigations and neuropathology of different forms of human prion disease, including vCJD.
5749	Read more: D6.4 Prototypes of annotation and scaffolding in version 3, prototypes for synergizing in version 2 D7.1 User study on the creative gaming environment and gaming apps version 1 Editors: Lucia Pannese, Antonio Ascolese, Dalia Morosini, IMA.
5750	Read more » Filip helped his team come through Gaziantep Bld. in Turkish cup´s opening encounter.
5751	Read More Kilduff said may have unwarranted confidence.
5752	Read more Marine- Estuarine-Environmental Sciences The mission of the MEES Program is to train graduate students in the overall environmental sciences.
5753	Read more mary (id: 8758, we prefer a male or a female) from (United Kingdom) We speak (english) and a bit (english) I am delighted to tell you about my family so that you might come and live with us.
5754	Read more MDB TEXINOV: Innovative silicon knitted textile For four years and under the leadership of the competitiveness Pole TECHTERA, three French Companies have developed a partnership in producing highly technical textiles.
5755	Read more New website under the ECREA umbrella Nyre (to be deleted), Lars 06.06.2007 The Political Communication Section of ECREA launches its own website.
5756	Read more Public Administration Walden University’s Master of Public Administration enables you to deliver quality services to citizens as a successful leader in public administration.
5757	Read more … The Final Curtain – New KARTA Publication on the Events of 1989 Is Peace in the Balkans deceptive?
5758	Read more: Transnistria’s Economy Going from Bad to Worse Is Russia a State Sponsor of Terrorism?
5759	Read my lips: A loser, is a loser is a loser.
5760	Read the full blog post on LSE Blogs..
5761	Read the full Choosing a CRC Polynomial and Method for Fast CRC Computation White Paper.
5762	Realising the German government’s offshore wind strategy will initiate a total associated investment volume of 75-100 billion Euros.
5763	Realizing this potential will require unprecedented collaboration and openness, but the payoff will be worth the effort, both for the new Digital Europe and for all the countries that do business with it.
5764	Really, the packers misplaced certain surface.
5765	Real time media distribution services are at the core of new and emerging network architectures.
5766	Receiving feedback from people with a variety of backgrounds helped taking my own research a step forward."
5767	Recently the so-called ‘Excellence initiative’ was taken in Germany: a strong competition amongst German universities for substantial additional research funding.
5768	Recently, we participated in many lobbying initiatives, aiming at supporting the European Commission’s initiative to draft a European Code of Conduct on Partnership (ECCP).
5769	Recent meetings include sessions at AAL 2013 in Sweden and at the TSA event in Birmingham.
5770	Recent operations have demonstrated critical gaps in European military capabilities.
5771	Recent videos have all of them while older video can have only the 'views' variable.
5772	Rechenzentrum Universität Stuttgart (RUS) is the university's computing center and acts as a central service facility for computing, networking and information services and has initiated and manages the State science network ‘BelWue’.
5773	Recipes - MacedonianThe Place to Find and Share the Best Recipes from the Balkans and World Wide Ajvar is popular appetizer or side dish made of roasted paprika, ripe tomatoes, and even string beans can be combined into ajvar.
5774	Recipients of a signed reply can validate its authenticity by following the chain of trust.
5775	Recognizing the demanding conditions in which peacekeepers carry out their work, we are grateful for the sacrifices they make.
5776	RecordCount property is used count the number of records in vehicle lien release form Recordset object.
5777	Recording these observations in a logbook can provide insight in their demand of maintenance and can also help to improve their design.
5778	Recycling wastes and residues for sustainable bioenergy and biomaterials What should be Europe’s role in feeding the world in 2050, considering competing demands for land?
5779	Re-election of EPC Chair and Vice Chair and election of Chairs of EPC Working and Support Groups The EPC Plenary re-elected Gerard Hartsink as Chair and Claude Brun as the Vice Chair of the EPC for a two-year term each.
5780	Referendum and democracy: putting the demos on stage Posted by eudo on June 29, 2015.
5781	Reforming student career guidance makes the involvement of students in the development process desirable in a comparable way as for teachers.
5782	Refundable tickets are available, but they come at a premium price.
5783	Regarding profitable activity in state forest enterprises special taxes for these entities are increasing.
5784	Regarding the international arena France and Germany are continuing their work to reach a sustainable, peaceful solution to the Ukrainian crisis..
5785	Regarding the I-Squared initiative, one of the most important questions is who and how will be assessing the foreign credentials of the highly skilled?
5786	Regarding the pilots, the goal is to have a tool for marking up, while combining all these different characters.
5787	Regardless of a small dip of inward R&D intensity between 2003 and 2007, an overall increase of inward BERD was present.
5788	REG D. DES. 791251 MADE IN ENGLAND Corkscrew called spade screws or of nickel-plated steel voyage equipped with a bottle opener manufactured by the establishments Mr.
5789	Region 2208 (S12E22, Dsc/beta-gamma) was responsible for the majority of the flare activity, producing several C-class flares.
5790	Regions in blue have more men than women, whereas there is an overrepresentation of women in the pink coloured regions.
5791	Register before 25 December 2013 to benefit from the early bird rate.
5792	Registered students receive a free membership to the Royal Roads Rec Centre.
5793	Registered users log into Port-Log.net Beacon, Special purpose/general A prominent, specially constructed object forming a conspicuous mark as a fixed aid to navigation.
5794	Register Now Download Software Now Adidas +10 Playoffs für Google Earth Download Free Microsoft Software: 75 Programs!
5795	Register Now Download Software Now Star Wars: The Old Republic Trailer Download Free Microsoft Software: 75 Programs!
5796	Register Now Download Software Now Using streamWriter you can record MP3-streams that are for example broadcasted by internet radio stations.
5797	Registration of participants on the first day starts at 9.00 hrs.
5798	Regisztráció Cleber Alves TiagoYou want to know more about Cleber Alves Tiago?
5799	Regisztráció Soňa MarýzkováYou want to know more about Soňa Marýzková?
5800	Regulation on the requirements of energetic certifiers, approved in Emilia Romagna Region on Saturday, 10 August 2013 10:00.
5801	Regulations are referred to as “trade irritants,” she adds.
5802	Reinforce the capacities of the local farmers through capacity-bulding, combined with investments in communication and information opportunities.
5803	Related keywords of “schladming” During the course of the experiments, composite stories were created and repeatedly edited by many individuals.
5804	Relations with Israel seem to be normalizing.
5805	Released in September 2014, the publication is an overview of instruments used by the European Union to promote democratic freedoms in the European Neighbourhood by supporting free and independent media.
5806	Relevance to Sustainable Construction This includes all generation installed on sites owned and operated by utility customers, like solar photovoltaics serving a house or a cogeneration facility serving an office.
5807	Relevant issues include: implementation of European policy, effectiveness of the EU ETS, changes to power generation infrastructure, impacts of electric transport, energy efficiency, and the availability and sustainability of biomass.
5808	Reliable Server Monitoring Software Solutions and services for Network Monitoring, Temperature Monitoring and Server Room Monitoring.
5809	Rembrandt van Rijn (1606-1669) was a prolific painter, draftsman and etcher and is regarded as the greatest artist of Holland's Golden Age.
5810	Remember, all morality, all these kinds of things can be brought by the same governments and you respond in the way that’s approved.
5811	Remember her book and the whole bit, ‘It Takes A Village to raise a child’.
5812	Remember that you are will keep buying groceries math worksheet visit to those sites hidden love who might be.
5813	Remember, the Department of Defence’s report that said, they foresee nothing but riots sparking off around 2012 continuing for possibly 30 years and flash mobs.
5814	Remember too, you can also get transcripts as well as audios on the websites and you can get transcripts in other languages of the talks I’ve given if you go into alanwattsentientsentinel.eu. But we truly are run in a really scientific fashion.
5815	Remember what Carroll Quigley said, you can get more done on a social level of change in 5 years of war than in 50 years of peace.
5816	Remove the bay leafs and twigs thyme, pour off and let it cool down.
5817	Remove the laces from your Air Max sneakers.
5818	Renesas recommends the SH-2A and SH-4A MCUs for high-speed access need, which enables an on-chip SD memory card interface.
5819	Rent with the assembly platform and service range to 16 meters.
5820	Renzi himself denied in front of journalists to had said this, specifying that he rather had in mind bureaucracy and purely technical issues.
5821	Repelling Regulation 4056/86 appears totally justifiable as the conditions for an exemption appear to be no longer fulfilled.
5822	RePlaY will contribute to general awareness-raising about these issues, to foster EU cooperation in these fields and to develop new projects promoting active ageing and intergenerational dialogue looking at the new Europe for Citizens Programme 2014-2020.
5823	Reply supported Chicco by deploying the specialist competencies of its network of companies.
5824	Reportnet: WebQ upgraded to Tomcat 6 Added by Søren Roug over 2 years ago The Web questionnaire system has been migrated to Tomcat 6 on Stonefish.
5825	Report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology.
5826	Reports submitted to EudraVigilance include suspected side effects of medicines reported during both the pre- and post-authorisation phases.
5827	Representatives of Pytalovo, Pskov and Gdov regions (Russia), Estonian partners and friends from Latvia took part in it.
5828	” Request Olympic medalist Alfred Flatow how that worked out for him, especially because the authorities had gun registration lists, an inevitable byproduct of fraudulently – promoted ” background screenings.
5829	Required fields are marked * The European Geosciences Union (EGU) is Europe’s premier geosciences union, dedicated to the pursuit of excellence in the Earth, planetary, and space sciences for the benefit of humanity, worldwide.
5830	Requirements and terms of each program are different, but here is something that all Erasmus Mundus programmes have in common: 1. The principle of mobility - you will study in at least two different EU countries.
5831	Requirements for Education (PhD) You should normally have (or expect to be awarded) a taught Masters in a relevant subject area.
5832	Requirements for Environmental Sustainability Work Experience for Environmental Sustainability No work experience is required.
5833	Requirements for Law for Business All courses (except Spanish and French options) are taught in English and require TOEFL 550 (IELTS 6.0) or the equivalent if English is a second language.
5834	Requirements for Logistics and Operations Management Suitable for graduates in business and management, logistics, and operations management.
5835	Requirements for Small Group And Chamber Music Coaching A good first degree or equivalent.
5836	Requirements for UK Human Rights and Public Law Upper second class honours degree, or equivalent, in relevant subject area.
5837	Requirements The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 mandates that employers irony is the lowest form of wit that all new hires are legally authorized to undertake employment in the United States.
5838	Researchers found that showing individuals different contextes of nanotechnology led to differences in how strongly they supported this emerging area of science and in their motivation to learn more about it.
5839	Researchers, representatives from the robot industry and a number of official representatives from the European Commission - 550 in total - visited the forum and participated in the more than 40 workshops.
5840	Research for Environment and Sustainability EW » Home » Research for Environment and Sustainability » Research foresight drivers » Social drivers You are using the Delete Folder button while you have checked items inside it.
5841	Research into the scholarly domain model The research focus on DM2E is modelling of the scholarly domain, closely related to the user requirements gathering exercises that underpin the development of the DM2E Digital Humanities tools.
5842	Research is one of CEDR's key focus areas and we have developed our own research strategy in 2010, which places a strong emphasis on dissemination and implementation of research results.
5843	Research, prototyping, innovation and technical excellence are essential parts of our team culture.
5844	Research Reports, Handbooks and Training Modules will also be produced during the project lifecycle.
5845	"Resolute action" is needed to implement structural reforms in France, Italy and Portugal, the three Eurozone members where the European Commission has detected excessive imbalances, according to the report, published on 20 April.
5846	Resolution accepted at the EGP Council meeting, Malmö, Sweden, October 16-18, 2009 This scandal once more reveals the total lack of transparency and lack of guarantees on how nuclear and chemical wastes are treated.
5847	Resources for hatch libraries Hatch patterns run and install just the same whether you have AutoCAD or AutoCAD LT.
5848	Respondents were asked about their overall shopping behaviour throughout the week as well as detailed information on their latest shopping trip for each transport mode used.
5849	Results are expected by June 2015.
5850	Results from complete repository (5,033) European championships rowing on the Amstel Week number 21-05Newsreels in which Dutch subjects of a certain week are presented.
5851	Results from this project were presented at DVB CM-AVC in Geneva and have informed ITU IPTV and EBU guidelines.
5852	Results indicate that those with higher ratings of trust in their marital relationship also show greater acceptability for Openness and Fidelity pertaining to social networking in this cross-sectional study.
5853	Results of the Second Annual Progress Report on the state of SEPA migration in 2009 (EPC Newsletter, Issue 5, January 2010) SEPA Survey 2009: Corporate Readiness on the Rise.
5854	Results published in the journal Science reveal a new approach to joining – and reconfiguring – modular 3D building units, by snapping together complementary shapes instead of zipping together strings of base pairs.
5855	Results show that the effect of nitrogen availability (as obtained from organic matter content) had the largest influence on winter wheat yields.
5856	Results will be collected in September and the Food SCP Round Table expects to publish the first final version of the ENVIFOOD Protocol before the end of 2013.
5857	Results will be shared with the SoPE commitee.
5858	Retail shopping centers also scheduled with host Prime including our custom FSA have a firm idea technology said Rod Yates business in Pennsylvania and will now come in.
5859	Retribution will no longer cause Cleanse to remove movement impairing surgical equipment dictionary from vehicles the paladin is riding.
5860	Returned CxCC-configuration.xml not valid.
5861	Return Migration and Development Platform On this page, the MIREM team presents to you a large number of statistical data, coming from different sources, and related to return migrants in Morocco.
5862	Returns are calculated based on the benefits stakeholders are expected to get by pursuing the particular strategy.
5863	Review and approval from country health authorities will be obtained before any commercial use.
5864	Review of the year: Pace of change provides a stern test of character Review of the year: Pace of change provides a stern test of character By Stephen Brenkley What should be done about Test cricket occupied most of the debates about the game in 2008.
5865	REVIT Architectural Drafting simplifies the design and implementation process for architects & engineers.
5866	Ria Binst became a registered member 3 weeks, 4 days ago Login to your account and check new messages.
5867	Rice's attorney, Paul Hoffman, argued Thursday that Lohan hadn't answered key questions about her drug use and whether she was remorseful, both of which could help his case.
5868	Richard on June 20, 2012 at 14:41 said: “Although I hate banks and “banking” as much as anyone, to just assume a disconnect between what banks do and what happens in the real economy is (to be civil) a mistake.”
5869	Riga Graduate School of Law: Call for Applications from Civil Society and Civil Servants The Riga Graduate School is offering an advanced programme in law and economics mainly aimed at public officials from ENP countries and Central Asia.
5870	Rights relied on by the Complainant (Art. 21 (1) Regulation (EC) No 874/2004) on which the Panel based its decision: 1. word trademark registered in European Union, reg.
5871	Rim Plus Workshop - Engaging the Private Sector for Smart Specialisation Do not miss the RIM Plus workshop 29 October.
5872	Risk Assessment Methods Approaches for Assessing Health and Environmental Risks.
5873	Rivers in blue are projected to see 100-year events that are more severe.
5874	Robert Schuetze, from Germany, is a professor of Law at Durham Law School in the United Kingdom.
5875	Rogério Dionísio presented the results of COGEU TVWS trials in Munich, and explained the implications of the secondary use of TVWS for rural broadband and M2M communications.
5876	Roger recently advised the Guernsey Financial Services Commission on various aspects of legal risk management and the preparation of a Guidance Note on that topic.
5877	Rolling 4Q revenues slid below US$6bn for the first time since 2009.
5878	Roma: DC-NET International final conference How can e-Infrastructures support digital cultural heritage?
5879	Romania's current agreement with the IMF ends in September.
5880	Romania's National Institute of Statistics placed Bulgarians second among foreign tourists in March, with 26.8 percent of the overall number.
5881	Ross King, looks back on four years of SCAPE.
5882	Rothschild funded Cecil Rhodes’ foundation from the beginning… in the traditional method too.
5883	RRUK is also leader of the Work-Package 3 (WP3 will provide an experimental database for engine representative ribbed radial geometries).
5884	RT @EUPioneers: Last chance to apply for up to..
5885	RTP supports increased awareness on SCP and the reduction of adverse impacts on the environment due The Travel Foundation helps UK travel companies take action on sustainable tourism by providing a range of tools, training and communication materials.
5886	Rue Montoyer 18b/2 B-1000 Bruxelles E-mail: This email address is being protected from spambots.
5887	Rui Bettencourt, general secretariat and presidency of Eurodysssey, Açores (P): The effectiveness of a regional approach to employment issues is the strength of this program.
5888	Rules requiring participants to establish volume limits for their clients may also be introduced.
5889	Rumbold emphasised that Montenegro needs to strengthen rule of law, in particular through de-politicised and merit-based appointment of members of the judiciary, and state prosecutors.
5890	Running from 2014 to 2020 with an €80 billion budget, the EU’s new programme for research and innovation is part of the drive to create new growth and jobs in Europe and will address SMEs as well.
5891	Run the mouse over the words to discover their definitions.
5892	Run the simulation in the DESYRE environment.
5893	Ruská 87/11, Ostrava (Ostrava-Vítkovice) Real estate company that deals with selling and renting houses, apartments, land and non-residential premises.
5894	RWP60: Violent Conflicts and Risky Sexual Behavior in Uganda - Adeline Delavande and Ricardo Menezes Cordeiro This paper investigates the relationship between violent conflicts and risky sexual behavior in Uganda.
5895	Sadly, member countries quickly vetoed the package under pressure from local telecommunications companies, threatened by competition.
5896	Sadly, no video proposal for me -- insufficiently extroverted.
5897	Salary : £30,424 to £36,298 per annum Closing date: 12 noon on 4 October 2013.
5898	Sales and installation of digital terrestrial and satellite systems DVBT.
5899	Sales of filters and parts for cars and trucks, buses and construction equipment.
5900	Sales of glass for corporate and residential spaces.
5901	Same agenda just goes on and on and on.
5902	Same thing as to indian wife hairy pussy gand.com his discovery as.
5903	Samsung Introduced New Wireless USB Chipset September 2010, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. introduced its latest wireless universal serial bus (USB) solution, developed using Ultra Wide Band (UWB) technology.
5904	Samsung Network Extender, droid ultra by motorola, lG Extravert 2. Lad 8.3 LTE, jetpack MiFi 6620L, droid mini by motorola.
5905	Sam: That's right, once you have this you're going to be a sitting duck, they can do whatever they want with you.
5906	Samurai Jack is the only one that can defeat the underground bandits and recover the stolen food.
5907	SANSA is an active participant in the GEONetCab project and participates in many other activities related to Earth observation.
5908	Saute bacon and onion together until bacon is crisp and onion is golden.
5909	SBB will be one of the main content suppliers to DM2E and thus one of the main contributors to WP1.
5910	S. Bridging NanoEHS Research Efforts - A Joint Workshop2012" will take place on 25–26 October 2012 in Helsinki. more Prof.
5911	Scenario based analysis might be the answer.
5912	Schaake: “The EU is facing fires on its eastern flank and in the Middle East, and a strong Europe is needed more than ever.
5913	Schaake thinks this is most important in relation to the EU-US trade agreement (TTIP), but she also wants the future trade commissioner to address concerns more broadly with regard to access to information, participation and transparency.
5914	Scheduled media consumption is but a memory.
5915	Schietbaanstraat 84-86, 8400 Oostende The Algae Event is a stand-alone symposium which is being held during the European Biomass Conference and Exhibition.
5916	School might not go as well as expected, you might realize that your friends aren't suiting you or you might have to constantly find new housing.
5917	Science The key questions and themes..
5918	Scientists have been watching the crackdown with concern.
5919	Scientists have created endorphin-like substances from the proteins in wheat, milk, barley and com and have shown that they are associated to the body’s endorphins sites.
5920	Scotland, in contradistinction, can never secure sovereignty within the Sterling Zone because a shared central bank will always force Edinburgh to dance to the tunes of the City and of England’s South East.
5921	Screenshots of the systems involved in the pilot cases We are happy to be the first beneficiary having executed this type of real pilot case using PEPPOL technology, says Dr.
5922	Seabased's generators have a nominal power of 10-50 kW.
5923	Sean in Arizona, you're on the air, go ahead.
5924	Search results — 226 items matching your search terms Call for Papers and Posters for the European Summit for Clinical Nanomedicine 2012 The call for Papers for the upcoming European Summit for Clinical Nanomedicine is open till 11th February 2012!
5925	Search the web for your favourite tunes. mppp is a webapp that searches the web for music files and provides them for your listening pleasure.
5926	Sebastian’s example will work as a compass to that direction.
5927	Second activity is preparation of feasibility study analysing road and transport system in the cross border area in Latvia and providing solutions to improve this system.
5928	Second, distressed youth told someone more often about online harassment or serious sexual solicitation.
5929	Secondly, the question of whether school evaluation increases educational quality can only be answered if we agree on what quality education actually is (and the jury is likely to be out on that one for quite a while).
5930	Secondly, we would like to emphasise a few things: 1. The new system is actually MORE REALISTIC simulation, as EPSO tests have a DIFFICULTY ARC, which means that no EPSO test has items of uniform difficulty.
5931	Second, the extensive public transport system means that car ownership levels in the city are much lower than those nationally.
5932	Second, they cannot argue that nuclear is a new, environmentally friendly technology in need of special support, the only other exemption under EU law.
5933	Secure composition and adaptation of services at SecSE 2012 The Sixth International Workshop on Secure Software Engineering (SecSE) has "secure composition and adaptation of services" as one of the highlighted topics this year.
5934	Security and the EU Certification Framework.
5935	Security aspects and new Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solutions are just some of the key issues which need to be addressed by IT managers in companies.
5936	Security monitoring and related support tools Security monitoring and related support tools are part of the EGI Core Infrastructure Platform which supports the daily security operations of EGI.
5937	SE-DRF41M headphones include a charger/headset cradle and two rechargeable batteries.
5938	See All Download Special Articles 3eefe633164d38e3f43663cd98c52277 ViStart makes your start menu look like the Windows Vista start menu.
5939	See All Download Special Articles 980ac6816f379b2fa60fe91f087b1baf ZebNet Byte Calculator allows you to quickly convert between different measurements of bits and bytes.
5940	See also Figure 5 - 9. 6 Exclusion of additional land for future requirements for biodiversity protection, human development and food demand.
5941	See for example the US.
5942	See for yourself the unique performance of the Active Contact Flange.
5943	See Mojca KLEVA KEKUS written contribution to FEPS Renaissance for Europe event in Turin.
5944	See reviews here.
5945	See web-link: EMA Pre-submission guidance for users of the centralised prodedure - List of questions 30. When shall I submit my application?
5946	See ‘Who can I talk to?’ for details on how to gain access to these services.
5947	See, you can’t complain to dictatorial governments.
5948	Select "File" at the top of the Address Book menu bar, audit workpaper referencing your cursor to "Export" on the submenu and click "Export vCard.
5949	Seminars are open to all, with no AOPA membership required for admission.
5950	SENIOR is an iniatiative within the program of economical innovation Pieken in de Delta Oost-Nederland.
5951	SEPA was not started as a demand-driven process, but as a policy-maker-driven EU integration initiative.
5952	September 21: United Network Of Young Peacebuilders (UNOY) International Day of Peace and Photo competition "Youth and Volunteering for Peace", The Hague, the Netherlands.
5953	Server: Europa Connection: close European External Action Service Remarks by High Representative/Vice-President Federica Mogherini upon arrival at the EU-CELAC Summit Today is about Latin America and our partnership with Latin America and the Caribbean.
5954	Server: Europa Connection: close More than 45 participants took part in the first ever Orientation Course on CSDP with a special focus on EU-ASEAN relations (11-13 March 2014).
5955	Server: Europa Connection: close Syrians' Spending and Use of Health Services Under the patronage of HE the Minister of Health, Dr.
5956	Server: Europa Connection: close Welcome to the website of the Delegation of the European Union to the Republic of Namibia.
5957	Service Offering for the Future Internet Self-aware Dependability as a Design Principle of the Future Internet Posted on October 17, 2011 by lyndon.
5958	Services and applications enabling distance calculations, aircraft tracking and optimised use of airspace have received top prizes at the 2014 SESAR SWIM Master Class Awards.
5959	Services for fellowship holders Practical support on key aspects is given to the candidates joining the program through the local International Student Offices at each university (and other local offices supporting academic and social activities).
5960	Services for remuneration other than those reported under scheduled services.
5961	Serving them all, 3E established a thorough understanding of the interaction between markets, legislation and renewable energy technology.
5962	Sesame seeds and sunflower seeds ground to a powder are also useful for weight.
5963	SESM is also partner in the ETI Project: Pro-active intelligence and support programme to stimulate European SMEs Faced with research issues in the field of ICT security (SECURE-FORCE).
5964	Session cookies, on the other hand, are used temporarily and they expire once a website or a browser is closed.
5965	Set into the hillside looking back towards the town, the chapel itself affords attractive views of Vence and its surroundings.
5966	Sevelamer, the active moiety in both Renagel and Renvela, has an established safety profile and is not systemically absorbed.
5967	Seven Austrian Universities and more than 25 leading industry partners are working together within the ACIB research program.
5968	Seven champion cities have been selected through a call for proposals to work with the NICHES+ project partners on establishing concrete implementation scenarios for innovative transport concepts within their cities.
5969	Several aspects of an effective integrated transport system design have been considered, with particular attention focused on environmental and social issues.
5970	Several delivers are totally free present cards to specific retailers, so finishing the provides really are a breeze.
5971	Several municipalities have established their own cross-media undertakings that provide all types of local media services (television, radio, newspaper).
5972	Several new tools and software applications were also developed for use in building smart, roaming interfaces.
5973	Several studies reported the increase in multiresistent serotype 19A as a cause of respiratory pneumococcal disease.
5974	Several theories have been proposed to explain why different people assess risks in different ways.
5975	Several weeks ago, producer Andre Pieterse said, attorneys for Madikizela-Mandela told Pieterse that the subject of the film would appreciate script approval in advance.
5976	Sexifying violence, as they call it.
5977	SGO Partners are thus involved in the programme via Calls for Proposals, and they intervene to answer a specific topic.
5978	Shades of “Yes” and “No” in Greece Social media are not constraint by law, as traditional media, to allow for 24 hours of “reflection.”
5979	Share and follow us!
5980	Shared spaces, which bring entrepreneurs together, are consistently acknowledged as being important.
5981	Share Hungary Funds 2007-2013 with the following email addresses: You have unsaved data that will be lost if you leave this page.
5982	Sharepoint 2010 upload multiple documents blank for OS X Yosemite, Keynote employs powerful tools and dazzling effects that sharepoint 2010 upload multiple documents blank your ideas to life.
5983	Share the post "“Women Make a Difference.”
5984	She also has a reasonable grasp of French.
5985	She also obtained her Master of Information Systems from Melbourne University, Australia and completed her PhD, specializing in Management Information Systems, from Imperial College London, UK.
5986	She asks what knowledge Anna should acquire at school to be able to do well at her new post.
5987	She describes how she intends to position EUROCITIES as the 'go to' network for urban issues in Europe, and emphasises the key role cities can play in driving economic growth and promoting energy efficiency.
5988	Sheets made from cotton do not trap warm air around the blank postcards whsmith.
5989	Sheffield Handyman: We are a local company, formed in 2009, who are looking to establish ourselves as the first choice for customers with smaller scale jobs.
5990	She had been managing a café in Brussels for many years, which she enjoyed but as costs started rising, it was difficult to keep the business running.
5991	She has an extensive experience in using tools to predict human health effects of chemicals based on their chemical structure.
5992	She has since returned to seeing men, including (A: some rugby star anyway.) So this is how they are pushing it, from the celebrities, because the little people down below tend to emulate it.
5993	She has taught at the Universities of Vienna, Salzburg and Innsbruck (2003-2007) and was a guest professor of Gender Studies at the University of Vienna in the fall of 2007.
5994	She has worked as a journal editor and popular science writer as well as a TV and radio journalist.
5995	"She held out long enough to meet the first of her grandchildren and to hold them in her arms.
5996	She holds a PhD from Frankfurt University.
5997	She is very educated and fluent in English, you will spend fun and interesting time with her.
5998	She mainly worked on harmonization of long-term capacity allocation on interconnection and market coupling implementation.
5999	She publicly contradicted her “fantastic ally”, the Croatian prime minister Zoran Milanović who, at the same forum only a day earlier, said that the revision of the B-H constitution was “unrealistic”.
6000	She’s, amazing, what should I call her, a man for the job?
6001	She says, it doesn’t matter if it’s all bogus, if it’s all wrong, all the information about global warming, we can use it to bring equality across the world..
6002	She sees to the development of training and communications plans as well as to the budget and human resources management allocated to her Sector”.
6003	She should wonder what “Empire State” they're talking about.
6004	She spent some time in the U.S. where she studied journalism at the University of Austin, Texas.
6005	She talked about art and literature and music.
6006	She therefore turned to the Ombudsman.
6007	She thought up the concept and since the beginning of this year has been successfully promoting the idea.
6008	She will explain the necessity of reliable local assistance by means of a system like NETPRO, that should be based on a complete and clear services agreement.
6009	Shifting the focus from his own group, he said, “it is up to the Conservatives to take responsibility and decide whether they want a resolution or not”.
6010	Shih is an associate editor of the ACM Transactions on Internet Technology and an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies.
6011	Shire focuses its business on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, human genetic therapies, gastrointestinal diseases and regenerative medicine as well as opportunities in other therapeutic areas to the extent they arise through acquisitions.
6012	Shoes play an important role in common imagery: they talk about the wearer’s social role and attitudes.
6013	Shopping for Halloween items online is becoming increasingly popular.
6014	Should cost be a limiting factor when talking about science?
6015	Should one or more provisions of this License Agreement be or become invalid in part or in its entirety, the validity of the remaining provisions shall not be 6.2.
6016	Should they build it and it's already done.
6017	Should this initial restricted release be successful, Eindhoven plans to make 6 luminaires accessible to the wider public in 2015.
6018	Should we not demand so much more of our decision-making, that it becomes unconsciously conscious and mindful?
6019	Show knowledge of physics and counterbalance figures which are on the screen.
6020	Shown below is the procedure.
6021	Significant competitiveness divergences have built up within the euro area, raising the exposure of some Member States to the global crisis and accentuating the need for adjustment.
6022	Significant cost savings can easily be realised due to faster installation and reduced amount of cable required to wire the vessel's systems.
6023	Sign up for Carnegie Email Defense Tops the Agenda for EU Leaders Marc Pierini TV/Radio Broadcast December 19, 2013 Euronews At December’s European Council summit, European defense topped the agenda for EU leaders.
6024	Simeprevir increases exposure to tenofovir.
6025	SimICS has followed in the wake of SICS computer architecture results, and has now also taken the step into the commercial field.
6026	Similar countervailing duties are in force against Iran, the United Arab Emirates and India.
6027	Similarly, by standing outside the public sphere and outside (above?) politics, early TV announcers gained in believability and became a source of popular identification amongst viewers.
6028	Similarly, for consumers and SMEs to use e-commerce and e-business they need confidence in the security of online transactions.
6029	Similarly, in Padua (Italy), communication and stakeholder involvement was one of the top three priorities coming out of the QUEST audit.
6030	Similar station constructed on Eiffel Tower only six years earlier had the range of only four kilometers.
6031	Simon Templer 02:16 pm Revision d7932c82: Complemented Geom Extend Function with Convex Hull Geom Extent Function now has 2 parameter choices: Compute bounding box or convex hull of all input geometries.
6032	Simon Templer 04:21 pm Revision ca34959f: use reference and key constraints in join page Change-Id: I2ae173a418aef7ea3e543e0bba8f5d1791163d96 Tested-by: Jen..
6033	Simply open the workbook in Excel 2010 or Excel 2013 and begin mastering Already have the basics mastered.
6034	Simply put, once your brain has interpreted the language and its meaning, Broca's area is where your response is formulated.
6035	Simply save the settings.
6036	Simulating Machining Processes in the Cloud (CAM in the Cloud) Simulating and optimizing the manufacturing process before the machines actually start making a new product is one of the key stages in manufacturing engineering.
6037	Since 1945, more than a third of the membership of the United Nations - 69 countries - have suffered some or all of the following.
6038	Since 1974, she has been living in Nicosia.
6039	Since 1982, the Gradute School of Natural and Applied Sciences (GSNAS) supports maintaining and ever increasing the high standards in national and international student admissions.
6040	Since 1985, Elena Tonkacheva, citizen of the Russian Federation, has been living in Belarus where she finished school, received higher jurisprudential education, has a permanent residence and a job, family and property.
6041	Since 1994, he has been using digital technologies for many of his artistic creations, ranging from digital imagery to electronic music, interactive videos, sculpture, sound installations, image installations and multimedia installations.
6042	Since 1994 he leads the Fault-Tolerant Systems Research Group of the University.
6043	Since 1998 a larger factory located in Peschiera Borromeo was opened to replace our previous structure.
6044	Since 1998 ASPEK is working to supply all services connected to design, prototype, supply and assembling of printed circuits.
6045	Since 2002, care and custody of CERIF has been handed by the European Commission to euroCRIS, a not-for-profit organisation dedicated to the promotion of CRIS (Current Research Information Systems).
6046	Since 2007 this gap has been narrowing, however, as innovation has been growing faster in the EU than in the US and Japan.
6047	Since 2008 Freelance translator of texts into English mainly in the areas of the film, art and fiction.
6048	Since 2008, Inria is the operator for Grid’5000 the French facility for experiment driven research, through ALADDIN-G5K, a technological development action.
6049	Since 2008, parliamentary elections have been held once (17 April 2011).
6050	Since 2010 she is permanent researcher at Fondazione B. Kessler-Istituto storico italo-germanico. 2011-2014 - Scientific Coordinator of the co-sponsored project "The Tridentine Acts.
6051	Since August 2013, the National Development Agency, responsible for the implementation of the 2007-2013 operational programmes, has been working under the Prime Minister's Office and is supervised by a government commissioner.
6052	Since changes such as those proposed in MIWP-18a Annex I xml schema updates can impact on implementation of software, a development and release process should be developed for updating/maintaining XML schemas.
6053	Since Croatia joined the European Union on 1 July 2013, country’s visa policy is fully harmonized with that of the EU as of 1 April.
6054	Since for the same accounting period such a property may be occupied by residents of different countries, a direct allocation to the country of origin seems almost impossible.
6055	Since it was a Lutheran country, Sweden controlled the actions of Protestant countries which, at that time, were fighting Catholic countries.
6056	Since January 2004, CarboEurope has mobilised hundreds of European researchers on these questions, crucial from the scientific and the political point of view.
6057	Since July 26th, the EGNOS Helpdesk has been reinforced with the extension of the operating hours and the accessibility by phone.
6058	Since national ECI signature verification systems have been built to use current personal data requirements, it might be difficult to modify them.
6059	Since October 2009, she has been the co-President of the European Green Party with Philippe Lamberts, MEP.
6060	Since so much of our society is now online, protecting each and every nook and cranny of our networked lives has become impossible.
6061	Since the beginning of its operations in Serbia, the EBRD has committed over €3 billion in various sectors of the country’s economy, with a total value of some €6 billion.
6062	Since the end of the GAMBAS project has arrived, it is time to summarize the results of the project and to provide an outlook on the upcoming exploitation initiatives that we were able to establish during the last year.
6063	Since then a range of issues affecting consumers, from consumer safety to consumer confidence in e-commerce, has been addressed each year.
6064	Since then, CCTVs have become one of the most contentious pieces of technology in public use.
6065	Since then we took things one step further in developing genetic engineering.
6066	Since the previous publication in April 2013, some important policy milestones reinforcing the EU financial regulation have been reached.
6067	Since the programme was founded in 1998, over 700 women in 70 countries have been recognised for their research and received funding to further their careers.
6068	Since there is an installation for lightning in front of the choir, it was technically possible.
6069	Since time immemorial, the members of various cultures have encountered each other, taken words, customs, administrative systems, etc. from each other, affiliated, traded, and fought against each other.
6070	Since user can have as many charts as he/she wishes, in order to allow a better comparison the positions charts can be rearranged (moved up or down by dragging).
6071	Sitecraft-Studio is an easy tool for creating professional sites.
6072	Sitting, venerable Ràdha said to the Bhagavat: “Venerable sir, it is said, ‘No (or lacks) atta’.
6073	Six: Fill the cream in a previously disinfected (or at least with boiling water rinsed) cream jar.
6074	Six Star Limousines truly is where you will find your luxury car or limo.
6075	S. Karger AG is a leading international publisher of books and journals in basic and medical sciences.
6076	Skills and competences improvement of workers employed in green sector with e-learning technology use It is essential to support business creation, as well as business growth, in the green sectors.
6077	SK Telecom claimed it had worked during tests.
6078	Sky500.com provides discounted first class & best price private jet charter services.
6079	S.Lagomarsino, A.Penna and A. Galasco in 2002) is particularly relevant.
6080	Sławomir Piotr Wilczyński April 11th, 2015 As polish person i want poland to join the eurozone in next few years.
6081	Sleepers and switch ties may also be strengthened at the ends by staples, nails, bolts or steel strips to prevent them from splitting.
6082	Slovak international was swapped from the left side into the middle, just behind the striker.
6083	Smaller-scale environmental projects will therefore be able to start up more quickly.
6084	Small nanowire arrays could act as tiny power sources integrated into the nano-machines and devices of the future, such as health sensors for diseases like diabetes.
6085	SmartBox -> SmartBoxC;'' Once you have your application ready and properly working and you want to deploy on our Guildford testbed, in order to simplify your interaction with the testbed, a GUI, called TMON, is available.
6086	SME innovation is therefore at the top of regional, national and European innovation policy agendas.
6087	Smell marks, three-dimensional forms and those which have grounds for refusal are not subject to registration. 2. The sign must fulfill the function of distinguishing the product or service they refer to.
6088	SMEs holding a business idea chaired dedicated multi-stakeholder tables to identify practical steps forward for the launch of joint initiatives and to discuss and negotiate terms and conditions for conducting reality checks trials.
6089	Smilena Kostova, Head of Institutions and International Relations Directorate and Mr.
6090	Smoking, dieting, the environment… do they influence your heart's health?
6091	SNOB can also export your notes to an RTF file, just click Report in the Notes window.
6092	SNP MEP, Alyn Smith today (Thursday) welcomed the continued efforts of the EU to cut the cost of international calls from mobile phones, known as roaming charges and urged companies to act before Europe does.
6093	So any UK engagement in the energy union looks less likely today than it did yesterday.
6094	So anyway, that’s going to happen.) In 1971, such couples typically had two dependent children.
6095	So, as well as the discussions about a broader summitstyle meeting which were discussed at the European Union, we have also wanted to discuss the practical ways in which we can collaborate in the future.
6096	So Canada has not got a huge population either, and yet, as I say, 2.9 million in 2009, up more than 55% of these youngsters on these drugs.
6097	So can we be calm?
6098	So Check it out ) available for instant download or CD Rom.
6099	So Chinese tourists are going to bring Britain out of the Depression, the financial depression.
6100	Social Innovation Incubation is a major trends in our ecosystems, and a strategic subject for incubators, accelerators, entrepreneurs, and for the EC and EBN.
6101	Socialization to work in late adolescnce: The role of television and family.
6102	Society as a whole – or certain groups in society – has an even greater influence.
6103	So do not waste money on internal resources you do not need.
6104	So far, the proteins have been found in many fish which live in cold conditions, as well as in insects, plants, algae and bacteria, in which they prevent ice growth and the crystallisation of organic fluid matter.
6105	So for example, recently elected Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir of Iceland said she hoped to hold a referendum on joining the EU within 18 months, reversing a long-held Icelandic position.
6106	So from Hamish and myself up in Ontario, Canada, it’s good night and may your God or your Gods go with you.
6107	So, FrostWire is a true example of the power of P2P. 0 of 0 people found the following review useful: Reviewer: Nthngurgel - View all of My Reviews If this isn't made by the same company as Limewire then I seriously think a lawsuit is in order.
6108	Software Defined Networks (SDN) and Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) are paradigms that are not just impacting telecom providers, technology vendors and other players of the related ecosystems.
6109	Softwar e strange things started happening around her.
6110	Software Update Instructions : Wi-Fish The following covers the update procedure for the Wi-FishTM product only.
6111	So, giving up national sovereignty in return for rescheduling national debt is what I support and empowering my local MP in the EU parliament.
6112	So, here’s the money going to you and they will tell you which ones you can shop at, what ones of the big massive international corporations you can shop at.
6113	So here you are, folks.
6114	So he was read his Miranda rights, it says, then he went silent.
6115	So how many similar experiments have been done that haven’t been exposed?
6116	So, I disagree that political extremism is a solution to frustration with the mainstream.
6117	So if we want to understand ourselves in our contemporaneity, then the question of why younger people today are in part apolitical and whether that has something to do with the fact that they did not experience ’89, is completely nonsensical.
6118	So if you want to keep me going..
6119	So I’ll put this up tonight as well; there’s a little video on it.
6120	So, I'll put up The Bloody History of Communism, and you can watch that tonight.
6121	Soil sampling in a wheat field, managed with conventional farming system.
6122	Soil System Sciences (378)Northern Europe (357) (25.2466 E, 54.6732 N) Download full resolution Credit: Paulo Pereira (distributed via imaggeo.
6123	So I’m putting a link up to UNICEF now, with their ad actually, for life-saving vaccine campaigns.
6124	So in that context she walks like and amateur, talks like an amateur, etc.
6125	So is exactly the difference that acoustic and electric guitar strap has.
6126	So it helps them all the more to have their world agenda fulfilled that way.
6127	So I try and fill it all in for you to make your own minds up and get a better perspective of what they’re talking about.
6128	So, it’s just a matter of getting it all out.
6129	So, it’s just once again, it’s getting you used to the step towards biometrics and chips and all the rest of it too.
6130	So it's not surprising that UNESCO's Commission on Culture and Development in its report, Our Creative Diversity, That's the report from UNESCO, Our Creative Diversity, worth the read.
6131	So its not the same.
6132	So, I would hold this up as an example of the power of the Internet to improve democracy.
6133	So kind of you, Nobel Committee.
6134	Solar and Wind Energy keep booming 2012 has seen new records in newly installed solar and wind power capacity.
6135	So let me reword that: Thnx for the deal with!
6136	Solicitor and Danish Politician: Former Minister of Justice - Trade & Industry - Finance What is the European Public Sector Award (EPSA)?
6137	Solicitors and law firm that provide legal services to businesses and individuals in a number of areas including conveyance, employment law, matrimonial law, estate planning and trusts.
6138	SOLIDAR Member FOS will keep putting pressure in this direction.
6139	So, logically I think about for what purposes is dedicated the STELLARNET, or if the Computer Automated Teaching and Learning nelongs to the Technology-enhanced learning?
6140	Some are associated with particular extensions and others, such as editors, are used across all of Joomla.
6141	Some argue that Rome began to lose its solidarity spirit when it allowed an oligarchy to develop a private silver-based coinage during the Punic Wars.
6142	Some companies offer support in selecting the right product, or may even be willing to reformulate the initial one (especially for important clients).
6143	Some complex random algorithms controls the combinations of words.
6144	Some countries have detailed and wide-ranging soil monitoring networks which measure a number of parameters relating to soil quality.
6145	Some dog glands procedures used in vet clinics include: this action involves manual squeezing of the sacs to release its fluid.
6146	Some have already travelled abroad to get familiar with other markets.
6147	Some many customers come back again to us for the second, third purchasing and more and more.
6148	Some may object to a quota scheme on the grounds that it ‘commodifies’ refugees, rather than respecting their rights.
6149	Some members of the Sopcawind Consortium will attend the European Data Forum that will take place on June 6-7 in Copenhagen (Denmark).
6150	Some of the already manufactured equipment is used from government organizations and many private sector companies.
6151	Some of the big stations, like the BBC, are owned by the government, so it's a propaganda arm, and yet the public trust the media.
6152	Some of the critical commentary has been thoughtful and well informed and, where we have been able to, we have tried to answer comments directly.
6153	Some of the local projects had been started earlier and most of the cities have previously made an energy strategy.
6154	Some of the major challenges in 2010 related to asylum, the Roma and data protection.
6155	Some of these goods, he feels, should be excluded from the exchange-value logic or else they will eventually lose their value.
6156	Some of these may potentially be of interest to third parties for commercialisation.
6157	Some of these might help you to study for a PhD at Stanford University!
6158	Some of these minerals and the metals created from them (such as tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) can make their way into the supply chains of the products used around the world, including those in the electronics industry.
6159	Some of these team members have already been very successful in their short careers.
6160	Someone (call me Germany) will have to recapitalise the ECB.
6161	Some performance indicators can be based on either self-reported, discrete measures or on logged data, such as for example the rate of use of a system.
6162	Something else is needed.
6163	Something that is less discussed is the fact that the so-called Balkan routes are some of the most rapidly expanding and lucrative channels used by human traffickers.
6164	Sometimes a girl from the unit is already waiting in the back: sometimes it’s Sabina, sometimes it’s someone else, often half-comatose with medication.
6165	Sometimes I had the luxury of writing about something I actually knew a little bit about, which included a fun story about how sand dunes were engulfing the star wars set in Tunisia.
6166	Sometimes the failure of a bright idea lies in its incompleteness in this sense, e.g. it is a great technological solution but cannot reach the market with the proper business model.
6167	Sometimes this list may be generic but in most cases this is gmat math sample problems actual chapter headings found in the HP Compaq iPAQ h3800 user guide.
6168	“So movement of people is absolutely necessary.
6169	So net result is kill liquidity, kill jobs and raise no money.
6170	So no, almost by definition, its interests can’t trump its values.
6171	So Patton was killed in an accident very quickly, but he wasn't in on the know, and that's what happens to those who don't understand the whole agenda.
6172	Sophie has a vivid interest in finance and is particularly fascinated by the impact of the financial crisis on Europe.
6173	Sophie turned around looking for clues when she heard a strange noise from behind.
6174	So, please periodically check these Terms and Conditions of Use.
6175	SOST Spanish Office for Science and Technology, rue du Trône 62, Brussels.
6176	So that's, we're going to talk specifically tonight about the end of the Anglo-American Empire.
6177	So, that’s what they’re doing to people to get cash back where they’ve already basically been paid by the insurance companies for it.
6178	So that went into their own particular understanding for their own people and gave them the same idea.
6179	So the Columbians are discovering the benefit of protecting ‘Columbian coffee’ and the Thais of protecting Siam rice.
6180	So, the obvious battle plan was to destroy all cultures.
6181	So the practical issue is how to harvest investments from INSPIRE and reuse these in Copernicus context.
6182	So the remaining euro area members would suffer (at least temporarily) from an uncompetitive exchange rate as well from the spillovers of the financial and economic crises in the broad periphery.
6183	So, there's nothing really new under the sun, as they say.
6184	So there's two ways to look at everything.
6185	So the risk of women involuntarily dropping out of the labour market remains high in many European countries.
6186	So the same governments come down and say, to keep society working in this crazy, mad, violent state, ALL of you have to be totally monitored 24 hours per day and treated like children forever.
6187	So they are breeding terrorists, you know, once they get into office and start taxing us all to death.
6188	So they come to expect these Government social policies, because they want to - you know, they say that socialism is perpetual immaturity; it’s a Peter Pan Syndrome: you don’t want to grow up and face the world on your own.
6189	So, they decided a long time ago to build these institutions, to make sure that the bankers did run the military-industrial complexes.
6190	So they must start taking down the population through disease, war, and every other means possible.
6191	So they started HANGING up these cadavers that they plasticized.
6192	So, they’ve accomplished most of their missions, as I say.
6193	Source: Fotolia.com. Taking on society’s big challenges Horizon 2020 is the biggest ever EU research and innovation programme and places more emphasis than ever on making sure that Europe’s promising ideas get from the laboratory to the market.
6194	Southeast Europe: People and Culture: CroatiaNatural Wonders of Southeast EuropeDaybreak light and fog on the Veliki Prstvaci waterfalls in Plitvice National Park, central Croatia.
6195	So we are different, you see.
6196	So we had the first discussion with the Foreign Ministers on how to better support European Union diplomacy action with foreign policy instruments, in order to support our energy interests and the energy Union.
6197	So we’ll see what happens, as it gradually leaks into the newspapers.
6198	So we need to involve people at the European level.
6199	So we’re living through massive changes now, all designed and talked about as I say well over a hundred years by those who set up this system.
6200	So, what did he think?
6201	So what do you do when toshiba 47tl515u manual angel crash-lands in your yard.
6202	So what, during a week that also included the deaths of eighteen protesters on the fourth anniversary of the country’s January 25th 2011 uprising, made Tutankhamun’s facial hair into the most newsworthy thing in Egypt?
6203	"So when they see you, it reminds them of that moment when they laughed.
6204	So with political will and institutional capacity, highly competitive project financing, combined with very high levels of public support, offshore wind is not a hard sell in Denmark.
6205	So, yes, if you wanted to be safe you should choose an example of when something went wrong from an area NOT measured in the interview.
6206	So you prepare society before you introduce the foreign element to it, or foreign logic or whatever, so it was carefully done.
6207	SP0 is composed by two Work-Packages SP0 will monitor all the project activities, and be responsible for Copyright QUTE-EUROPE 2013 - 2015.
6208	Spain, currently undergoing cuts of 11% of its GDP, and Greece, who saw a fall in real wages of 10% within a single year, are taking the worst brunt of austerity measures, but other countries are deeply affected too.
6209	Spain has a pretty decent base of young people, but a good percentage of them is leaving the country in large numbers because Spain’s government can’t seem to concentrate its revenue on good solid projects that will boost the economy and create jobs.
6210	Spam protection: What is three times three?211?
6211	Spatio-temporal data management and interactive visualisation.
6212	Speaker: Claes Thegerström, President of Swedish Nuclear Fuel and Waste Management Company (SKB) SKB is assigned to manage and dispose of all radioactive waste and spent fuel from Swedish nuclear power plants.
6213	Speakers and organisations complained about the partisan use of the Spanish judicial system, the lack of freedom of speech and the precariousness of the rule of law in Spain regarding the pro-independence process in Catalonia.
6214	Speaker: Sascha Pallenberg (潘賞世) is a Techblogger living in Taipei who's constantly travelling between Asia, the US and Europe.
6215	Speakers from DNV and GL Garrad Hassan presented experience in conducting measurements of wind speeds and sea environment acquired at foreign offshore wind projects.
6216	Speakers hotel (fully booked!)Ibis Hotel St.
6217	Speaking after his day Mr Smith said: "I had a great day with Gregor and his team at Kishorn and I learnt a lot.
6218	Speaking after visiting the college Rob Gibson said "We have just seen some real innovation in the engineering department here that is supporting projects across the islands, they are working on some unique ideas that really need proper support.
6219	Speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to talk to the media, the official said tests are under way around the country to try and identify the source.
6220	Special feature: 100% of the site’s heating will be provided by the heat recovery unit on the Bruxelles-Propreté incinerator tower nearby.
6221	Specifically for the European Union, it is an opportunity because it solves a long-standing problem for them.
6222	Specifically: In FInES, the question as regards the (Future) Internet as a Universal Business System for Enterprises and SMEs in particular has been raised.
6223	Specifically, it aims to provide students with the ability to evaluate the potential of sites for plant growth and determine the soil and water factors affecting production.
6224	Specific attention was made of the group of patients receiving RT in the last 30 days of life.
6225	Specific requirements are given in Waste regulations under the Act.
6226	Specific system features have been developed to address them.
6227	Specifying a module name without a version number will select the default production version.
6228	S&P lowered its long-term outlook for the federal government’s fiscal health from “stable” to “negative,” and warned of serious consequences if lawmakers fail to reach a deal to control the massive federal deficit.
6229	Sports and recreation education This group includes general continuing education and continuing vocational education and training for any profession, hobby or self-development purposes.
6230	Spreading the use of technologies that allow people and business to carry out their daily activities in a more energy efficient way are crucial to meeting the EU's 2020 climate change goals.
6231	Square bashing – it’s Masonic so they walk the square.
6232	Sri Ramakrishna took birth in Bengal, and most of Ramakrishna's disciples were Bengalis.
6233	Staccato will also be showcasing the Imation Wireless Projection Link at the 2009 International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), January 8-11, in Las Vegas.
6234	Stakeholder questionnaires and analysis provide further details on willingness to promote and invest.
6235	Stakeholders should include representatives of the food & drink industry, such as Coca-Cola Europe, Mondelez International, Danone, Barilla G&R Fratelli, Nestle, Tetra Pak Research, and Mars, as well as retail businesses.
6236	Standardization is the definition of common interfaces, content models, and terminology that enable interoperability between and among heterogeneous systems to enable interoperability.
6237	Standing in the mine’s dispatch office, (A: And they go through how much they put out every day; it’s just astronomical—astronomical.
6238	STAPP 2012 - Savannah - Georgia - USA The Stapp Car Crash Conference® is the premier forum for presentation of research in impact biomechanics, human injury tolerance, and related fields that advance the knowledge of land-vehicle crash injury protection.
6239	Starbucks’"Dimming water bore holes, as they water ways behind water ended regarded as, forfeited 6 million gallons on water daily.
6240	Staroměstské nám. 932/6, Praha 1 Central government body for agriculture, food industry, forests, hunting, fishing and related fields.
6241	Start by looking good on the day.
6242	Started by: dagegen You must be logged in to create new topics. deine alternative blogger-community!
6243	Starting from the bipartite countries-products network deﬁned by export ﬂuxes, we deﬁne two complementary graphs projecting the original network on countries and products respectively.
6244	Starting on electric power only, its range is some 60 km, but the Imperia's range is unlimited the moment it switches to the thermal engine once the batteries are drained.
6245	Starting with the toughest – the moneymen (and women).
6246	Statement of Data Protection Conditions for the Internet The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft zur Förderung der angewandten Forschung e.V. (Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft) takes the protection of your personal data very seriously.
6247	“State of the Union 2015 – Europa Media in Florence, Italy” From 6th to 9th May, the annual State of the Union conference took place in Florence, Italy.
6248	State Program "Azerbaijani youth in 2011-2015" Conception of State Youth Policy (1998) This conception determines the basic provisions and directions based on which the State Youth Policy of Armenia is developed and implemented.
6249	Station AANDERAA 3660, CUFES 600 l/min, Termosalinographer SB21, Fluorometer TURNER 10AU, Hull mounted Video digital Camera OE14-122.
6250	Statistically significantly changes in physical and functional patients status were observed after comprehensive rehabilitation program for children with neurological diseases.
6251	Statistics on drug law offences The Statistical bulletin is published yearly by the EMCDDA and provides access to the most recent statistical data relating to the drugs situation in Europe.
6252	" Statwing currently a free trial period.
6253	Stay in the historic heart of town Do you like fresh interior design and yet want to stay in Prague’s centre?
6254	Stefan Lehne Article April 3, 2012 As France struggles to remain internationally relevant in the face of the changing global constellation of forces, the French leadership should think about becoming more Europe-minded.
6255	Stefan Rauschen: Yes, if there was such an effect, it would stand out.
6256	STELLARnet will target the different stakeholder groups on different levels as appropriate to discuss topics of personal development, sustainability and the use of new technologies.
6257	Štěrboholská 571/79, Praha (Prague 15-Hostivař) We provide hand dryers and dryer, hotel hair dryers and swimming pool, air fresheners, soap dispensers, toilet paper and paper towels.
6258	STI and HIV prevention in men who have sex with men in Europe21 Feb 2013 Across Europe men who have sex with men (MSM) represent one of the key groups affected by HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STI).
6259	Still, 57 million children do not go to school and more than half of them are girls.
6260	Still, given the centrality that peace is made to play in the theory it is not clear that its value can simply be posited without being more strongly defended.
6261	Still, the whole idea here is what do you believe is important?
6262	Stodolní 794/21, Ostrava (Moravská Ostrava) Providing advertising and marketing services.
6263	Stop AIDS also offers harm reduction activities to prisoners in six prisons, focusing on information, and counselling, peer education, HIV, syphilis, hepatitis B and C testing, training of medical and psycho-social personnel and provision of condoms.
6264	Stop all in one GIGA contracts and get back to people you know the name.
6265	Stop by the Covenant Academia corner to know more!
6266	Strange if you do will disorientate www.desi sex girls imaqes patients the innocent and filling timbers of the hull.
6267	Strapless Sweetheart Organza Fit and Flare Wedding Dress with Jewled Sash Strapless Sweetheart Organza Fit and Flare Wedding Dress with Jewled Sash..
6268	Strategic Europe September 15, 2014 The West Is Not Prepared for the Long Haul Over Ukraine The Kremlin is weakening Ukraine’s independence and eroding other parts of Eastern Europe.
6269	Strategies for Successful Research Commercialisation 19. October 2015 - 20. October 2015, InterCityHotel Berlin am Hauptbahnhof Licensing and Spin-Outs: Towards the best commercial output of your ideas!
6270	Strategies must be comprehensive, developed and coordinated to work together and compliment those implemented at the local, national and international levels.
6271	Strengthen business connections and form lasting relationships with other digital leaders from around the world!
6272	Stressing that this wasn’t just an interest group asking for more money, Nellberg-Dennis said the cuts were affecting not only national security for member states, but the internal security of the whole of Europe.
6273	Stress test of the cloud service architecture.
6274	Stretch the galaxy wire to make a smaller diameter.
6275	Structured Questionnaire on 'Treatment programmes'(SQ27P1), submitted in 2014.
6276	Stuart Rae is a PhD student in the School of Earth, Atmospheric and Environmental Science at the University of Manchester, UK, under the supervision of Dr.
6277	Students can focus their doctoral research on a wide range of economics-related topics provided at least two Ph.
6278	Students enrolled in the Double-Degree Programme (DDP) at National University of Singapore (NUS) have a specific application procedure through NUS.
6279	Students from all over the world are enrolling in Finnish universities and polytechnics, in order to benefit from the free tuition and high quality of education.
6280	Students in our program must develop a basic research background in both archival and behavioral empirical research.
6281	Students joining either the MSc Public Health – Health Promotion or the MSc Responsible Tourism Management, and who meet the other eligibility criteria, are able to apply.
6282	Students study six modules each year, three in Politics and three in History.
6283	Students will obtain business knowledge and explore Asian economic trends as well as experience the management practices in Greater China.
6284	Studies like that of Hochuli and Feist-Burkardt (2013) clearly illustrate that there is much to be learned about plants in the Triassic and Jurassic and that it might be possible to find that “first” pre-Cretaceous angiosperms.
6285	Studies show that a small number of people commit three quarters of all crimes in certain categories.
6286	Study autobiographies of people today you admire and that have overcome adversity.
6287	Study principles of economics and finance, using examples from the management of sports teams and clubs to illustrate economic issues and to give you an understanding of finance and funding for sports businesses.
6288	Submitted papers must represent original material that is not currently under review elsewhere, and has not been previously published.
6289	Subscribers to the EDRC Portal will always be updated on launched procurements and events promoted by EDA.
6290	Subscribe to the World of Warships News Digest and get updates about the game.
6291	Subsequently, Brussels’ policymakers should reevaluate their approach by analyzing the specific practices, needs, and capacities of each of the states concerned.
6292	Subsequently, it shows a comprehensive database on material flows and derived indicators for sustainability.
6293	Subsequently, the outcome of society’s participation will be integrated into the work prepared by the science-based partners.
6294	“Subsidies to Renewable Energy Sources and International Trade: Issues and Tools to Reconcile Trade Rules and Environmental Policies”, Global Trade and Customs Journal, 2010, Vol. 5, Issue 6, p. 223-236.
6295	Substitution Group Exclusions (Applies to element declarations).
6296	Success is supposed to be getting to the in something with enough bank notes to match it, to match your status, which means that for every one winner there's going to be an awful lot of losers as they say.
6297	Such a boosting vaccine could be administered in infancy, soon after BCG, where it would be a prophylactic vaccine administered to infants not infected with Mtb to prevent disease and potentially infection.
6298	Such a demographic transition seems to be a common feature of development across the world, although there are important differences in timing between the various regions.
6299	Such a framework will facilitate the emergence of a well-functioning and transparent wholesale market with a high level of security of supply in electricity.
6300	Such an arrangement would interfere with the privacy of citizens, but would not properly protect their security.
6301	Such a one-shot game does not have a separate phase to deal with free-riding (this would represent recovery and remediation).
6302	Such a person is entitled to submit written statements, see the files, be notified of the ordered hearings, and express own opinion in the course of the hearing.
6303	Such a situation originates from the past dismantlement of former Common Properties: traditional rights survived in a “lowered” version, and their persistence is represented by high rates of public (Municipal) property.
6304	Such conclusion arises from the new Law on the Enforcement and Implementation Procedure of the Criminal Code, Criminal Procedure Code and the Code of the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions (Official Gazette, 29 October 2002, No.
6305	Such entities are: (i) Cloud service consumers to manage their application deployment, (ii) resource provisioner(s) to propose appropriate elasticity resizing actions, and (iii) Cloud providers to assert that SLAs offered to customers are met.
6306	Such factors render profoundly difficult any attempts to accurately extrapolate human carcinogenic hazards from animal data.”
6307	Such figures often have a crude impact and people experience them as an insult to human dignity.
6308	Such findings challenge current concepts in chemical risk assessment.
6309	Such guarantees, for instance, would be of particular importance in ex officio proceedings allowed under art. 26 ACTA.
6310	Such literature can be symbolized by water, while wood could be the symbol of paper literature.
6311	Such measures are designed to reduce the injection-related risks of blood-borne viruses (HIV, HCV).
6312	Such measures, however, may be disastrous as seen in the tragic event of October 2005 when immigrants were shot dead after trying to climb up the frontier to Europe.
6313	Such policies include support for design freedom and technical innovation, as well as content flexibility, portability, and choice for consumers.
6314	Such processing In addition to highly skilled and operations are critical with respect experienced researchers within to quality of products as well as powder technology and smart erosion of equipment.
6315	Such qualitative methods were supplemented with the creation of data bases, for example on artistic interventions and on architectural competitions.
6316	Such software is distributed with a specific intent (often of commercial nature), which negatively affect the users to various degree.
6317	Such terminals must be miniaturized, and save power so that each device can operate by ba…Sensor network terminals are installed in large numbers in the field and transmit data periodically by radio.
6318	Such violent acts are unacceptable and can only destabilise the situation.
6319	Sudden loss of 30 percent of blood volume may be fatal, but as much as 60 per cent may be lost slowly over a longer time period without such risk.
6320	Suddenly the EU was in a conflict with Russia that it did not seek, for a country in which it wasn't very interested.
6321	Suggested system for estimation of life of machine components enables assessment of wear at any time of machine operation.
6322	Suitable My Wedding Online offers Professional Services for all of your party, wedding and event planning needs.
6323	Summary: EU laws have to be compatible with the EU Treaties (including human rights).
6324	Summer schools present many opportunities to advance your language skills.
6325	Sunteți aici:StiriUltimele știriCommunity development and inclusion Community development and inclusion Our goal is an inclusive community in which all people can participate and support each other.
6326	Superduty Target audience example essay Stories panchatantra stories in.
6327	SUPERHUB partners are pleased to invite you to the presentation of SUPERHUB.
6328	Supplementary pension insurance is a long-term activity and the amount of the investment yield realized in their favor for the whole, usually 20, 30 and even more than 40 years, period of insurance is very important for the insured persons.
6329	Supplying dry transformers, chokes, coils and resistors in the power 500kVA.
6330	Supply of a High Resolution ICP-MS The Institute for Transuranium Elements (ITU) plans to purchase a high-resolution ICP mass spectrometer.
6331	• Support, advice and training in selective Systems-, IT services and software engineering, deployment and transfer of engineering know-how for small and medium-sized companies.
6332	Supports cultural projects within the Dutch language zone that let the Bible speak in new ways.
6333	Surely, I do not need to explain the understanding of the term- “thinking nothing of somebody” more in detail?
6334	Surely it is always better to prevent tragedies, such as that with occurred in Galway, than to ignore or suppress attempts to legislate.
6335	Sure, they might be able modnation racers cheats psp fix it.
6336	SURFfoundation and JISC have not only drafted the Principles, but also a model Licence to Publish in order to help the traditional publishers of journals and authors to move in the direction of open access.
6337	Surfrider Foundation Europe is dedicated to the protection and sustainable development of the ocean, the waves and the coastline.
6338	Surge and Thermal Growth Pressure Control The Hydropad specialty accumulator dampens your hammering liquid surges from closing valves and pump start-ups with a superior design.
6339	Surrounded by explosives and a bomb that reads 2 minutes until detonation, the fate of the world lies in your hands.
6340	Surveys of large areas of the sky, if not the whole sky, with increasing angular resolution and sensitivity, conducted in the main electromagnetic ranges, have produced an enormous amount of data which is far from being fully analyzed and used.
6341	Survival rates have been improving for thirty years.
6342	Susanne Poelchau has also worked as a moderator and author for TV, radio and print and has lectured in science and psychology.
6343	Sustainability: Operations and Maintenance Agreement (OMA) will be signed in advance with the local government beneficiary of the project.
6344	"Sustainable changes in working conditions can only be maintained if the management develops its own policies and processes.
6345	Sustainable cleaning is essentially about cleaning to maintain and improve health and wellbeing in a way that is ever more resource-efficient and safe for people and for the environment, as well as being sustainable economically.
6346	Sustainable Procurement Resource Centre Bringing all the necessary information together in one place, the Sustainable Procurement Resource Centre is a one-stop access point for procurers, policy makers, researchers and other stakeholders.
6347	Sustaining members include organisations that share Ecsite’s aims and are keen to participate in Ecsite activities.
6348	Sweden has not made such a declaration.
6349	Swift viewers with excellent reading understanding might possess a relative edge on the ACTION.
6350	Swing can be integrated in all packaging machines.
6351	“Swiss Bank Data: German Tax Officials Launch Nationwide Raids” “German tax authorities have bought a new CD containing bank account details of thousands of alleged tax evaders..
6352	SWITCH-Asia will continue to engage with actors from the fields of climate change and low-carbon development.
6353	SYNAPTIC Awards for Excellence in Seamless Mobility The INTERREG Northwest Europe cluster project SYNAPTIC has established the SYNAPTIC Awards for..
6354	Synchronous mode includes weekly live broadcasts as well as chatting.
6355	Syntheses of the ocean state using models constrained by observations are critical for understanding climate and predicting climate variability.
6356	Syriza and other delusional parties such as KKE are still waiting for mother Russia to come to their saving grace whilst centrists and the right are still waiting for the US to redeem them.
6357	Systems biology can be described as the next level of bioinformatics.
6358	Szymański asked in this context is, how the existence of information networks changes the dynamics of human interaction.
6359	T2.5 – Distributed geospatial capabilities This task optimizes the results of tasks 2.3 and 2.4 for cluster deployments.
6360	Table 25: Characteristics associated with a less favourable (<0.5) net benefit.
6361	Table 2: Jon Dawson is the moderator and Ilenia Gheno from AGE Platform is the rapporteur.
6362	TAG CLOUD (Technologies lead to Adaptability & lifelong enGagement with culture throughout the CLOUD) will generate lifelong engagement with cultural heritage through social media, augmented reality and storytelling applications based on the cloud.
6363	Tagged mantra, parabola, review, tempera, theme, wordpress, zombie apocalypse.
6364	Tags: budget, ideas, people, politics, reform, rural development Subscribe to our e-mail newsletter to receive updates.
6365	Tags: Parliament, politics, reform, single farm payment, subsidies Subscribe to our e-mail newsletter to receive updates.
6366	Take advantage of our growing list of international partners during your studies.
6367	Take advantage of them.
6368	Take a look here at how these customers have renovated their homes or businesses and allow yourself to become inspired about your own interior.
6369	Take into account that all the islands have the FlowVisor at the following IP listening at port 6633 (default). : It will manage your flowspace while the slice controller (preivous section) is the one set by the user to treat the packets of his flowspace.
6370	Take subway line 8 (direction “Nuevos Ministerios”) until the last stop and change to line 10 (direction “Puerta del Sur”).
6371	Taking a similar path to his supervisor, Marchesi works in both the human rights practice and in academia.
6372	Taking into account a few historical recorded flood events, peak water level was 753 cm in 1876, 909 cm in 1970 and 1040 cm in 2000 (Sendzimir and Magnuszewski, 2009).
6373	Talk to your pediatrician regarding the use of this medicine in children.
6374	Tally accounting software is more powerful and easy.
6375	Tanita Huskovic March 2nd, 2012 I agree with many points in the article.
6376	Tanning agents including oil/brains, vegetable tannins, and alum (potassium alum KAl(SO4)2) were used to tan the deer, calf, rabbit, and fish skins.
6377	Tannins can be hard on the kidneys, so drink just one cup of tea, or use oak only if you don’t have other options.
6378	Target 2 claims can arise from trade and current account transactions as well as from purely financial transactions.
6379	Tarquin Farquhar March 16th, 2014 I concur with the slight caveat that methinks the monkey in question would require NO training whatsoever perhaps?
6380	TBVI - Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative 4. > New TB vaccine videos on youtube New TB vaccine videos on youtube Recently some new videos about the development of new tuberculosis vaccines were published on youtube.
6381	Teachers feel that they lack guidance and control on how to work with EE in the classroom.
6382	Teachers from different countries used/use the innovative project as support activities in school lessons.
6383	Team members in discussion in Catalonia This area is for partners only. helping Europe tackle climate change Website design: mach2media and Technoleg Taliesin Cyf.
6384	Teams will focus on sustainability in the local communiy, e.g. water and waste management, sustainable building, availability of organic grown food.
6385	Technical and project management staff operate in line with ITIL, PRINCE2 and Agile industry standard.
6386	Technical annex to the SEAP template instructions document providing a set of reference emission factors.
6387	Technically the registration process can be implemented using: If you do not know an existing Vemma Affiliate or Customer please read more here: How can I register with Vemma not knowing an existing Vemma Affiliate/Customer?
6388	Technical reviewers may also determine that a PRACE system different from the one requested would be more suitable for the proposed project.
6389	Techniques were devised to the automatic generation of game levels from a small set of data.
6390	Technologymix implemented in this CONCERTO site Altogether around 460 dwellings from the 1960’s have been eco-refurbished within the CONCERTO initiative (Picture 1).
6391	Technology, narratives, and audiences are the three main axes proposed for the theorizing exercise of this congress.
6392	Technology required to efficiently contribute to the power system, as envisaged by the EU 2020 policy targets and beyond, were discussed at the event.
6393	TEDIS teleworkers prefer working at home.
6394	Teen amateurgirl Bondage & Facial In the Wood (the end) - Behind the Scene OtO 2 Very Hard Strokes of the Cane for Nude Girlfriend We do not own, produce or host the videos displayed on this website.
6395	Teeth whitening is a very common procedure in cosmetic dentistry and it is also known as teeth brightening or teeth bleaching.
6396	TEFIS (TEstbed for Future Internet Services) is a large-scale integrating project addressing the FP7 work programme objective ICT-2009.1.6: Experimental Facilities.
6397	Tel.: +43 1 9580911 For press inquiries, please, contact: Petra Letavayova Táto e-mailová adresa je chránená pred spamovacími robotmi.
6398	Telecoms companies are only too happy to share those numbers, which have been growing inexorably in the past decade.
6399	Telefónica’s IoT (Internet of Things) platform adheres to the specification of the European FI-WARE standard.
6400	Televisió de Catalunya’s mission is to offer all the citizens of Catalonia quality and efficient public service broadcasting, committed to ethical and democratic principles while promoting the Catalan language and culture.
6401	Teleworking also proves helpful if travelling to work is a problem, for example if the city is blocked due to extreme weather conditions, demonstrations or other events.
6402	Tell us what you need, how you work, what you expect.
6403	Tell us your issue and discuss it.
6404	Tenants are “social” inhabitants as well, mostly people who live alone, followed by couples and finally by families with children.
6405	Ten years ago many people believed that this promise could not be fulfilled and that the single currency was bound to fail.
6406	Terms and conditions, features, support, 2006 suzuki grand vitara blue book value and service options vitara to change without notice.
6407	Terrorists need money to prepare and carry out attacks.
6408	Tesla Blatna, maker of electronic components for companies like carmaker Skoda, is the first company from one of the countries having accessed the EU in 2004 to lead a European-wide EURIPIDES project.
6409	Tesoro and Tesoro Golf Club developed by Ginn Clubs and Resorts.
6410	Testing for such a relationship in the German tree diversity experiment BIOTREE (Bechstedt), we hypothesized that pathogen richness and pathogen load decline with increasing functional diversity of tree communities.
6411	Test sites should make themselves well-known.
6412	Texts submitted to New Eastern Europe may also be considered for translation and inclusion in the Polish edition of Nowa Europe Wschodnia.
6413	Text which is displayed when the table is processing a user action (usually a sort command or similar).
6414	Thankfully, airlines have conceded that they should pay their share of the climate-bill and have agreed to the inclusion of air transport in the Protocol.
6415	Thanks for addressing this.
6416	Thanks for boxing glove weight guide support.
6417	Thanks for holding, AJ, go ahead.
6418	Thanks so much for the blog article.
6419	Thanks to pressure from the European Parliament, the main European political parties have selected champions to compete for the job of President of the European Commission.
6420	Thanks to the interventions in all region it has been possible reach objectives to support the victims in the various phases relative to social reinsertion.
6421	Thanks to the numerical simulations, Antun and his colleagues are also studying the oscillations in density of the BEC quantum liquids and using this knowledge to control properties of ultracold quantum gases.
6422	Thanks to this project, the efficiency of this product has been demonstrated in the dairy and meat sector in the mentioned countries.
6423	Thank you everybody for the feedback provided, specially to wzowee about the testing room.
6424	Thank you for perfect support," announces Stoch to the audience.
6425	Thank you very much in advance and nihan I live in Istanbul.
6426	Than we go on the road on our hike for some time.
6427	That alone will cause Alzheimer's.
6428	That band Vern wanted back, DeYarmond Edison, shared members Brad and Phil Cook and Brian Moen with Josh’s band, Amateur Love.
6429	“That cannot be so”.
6430	That coordination, however, should go even further.
6431	That electricity can be used either to power the wheels via the ERS-K motor housekeeping checklist example to spin the turbocharger compressor.
6432	That free money that you had for purchasing things and buying things in the past WILL go to pay for carbon taxes and various fees of a multitude of kinds.
6433	That funded all the other big wars since, and are still funding wars and promoting them.
6434	That Germany will try to gain as much as possible while weaken its future competitors in a disintegrated Europe.
6435	That goes, too, for all the big international corporations.
6436	That is just one of the reasons there are Seattle professional financial professionals.
6437	That is not going to happen any time soon.
6438	That is, people have limited time, thus time spent in one activity interferes with time spent in another activity.
6439	That is the next step for the whole of Europe, as you are now DE-nationalized.
6440	That is the reason why it has seemed necessary to include investments for the development of such systems, favouring the access to information and communication technologies and their strategic use.
6441	That is, what is the reason why limiting oneself to that consideration alone results in overlooking a conceptual requirement specific to the guiding function of law?
6442	That is what this seminar is all about".
6443	That is why during his campaign, Sergi tried to encourage non-Belgians living in Brussels to register and to vote so that foreigners’ voices could also be heard.
6444	That is why, in adopting her resolution, MEPs call on the European Commission to submit, as soon as possible, a proposal for a directive setting out measures for overcoming the gender pay gap for equal or equivalent work.
6445	That kind of justice fully independant from any lobby groups is what we need.
6446	That lack of financial security makes it harder to think about settling down, starting a family, planning for the future.
6447	That may be more scare story than reality JS on October 30, 2011 at 16:04 said: “So instead of getting both sides angry at each other it would be better to break up as friends.
6448	That means that the International Atomic Energy Agency will have more work to do over the next six months.
6449	That means they want you to believe this.
6450	That nobody from the bank went to jail or paid a dollar in individual fines is nothing new in this era of financial crisis.
6451	That of the United States had been based on thinking in the British liberal tradition, and was by then familiar to educated and interested people in Britain.
6452	That part is over.) Everything seems more transitory and temporary: external reality more fluid than solid, the human being more synthetic than authentic.
6453	That record was a big inspiration for me and the direction of the new album so it was amazing when he agreed to do the artwork.”
6454	That’s all they give you is medications.
6455	That's common sense but they rely upon the fact that most young males think they're indestructible.
6456	That's declassified now.
6457	That’s easier on both sides.
6458	That's exactly what Bertrand Russell and others said, in the '50s, they said we shall create an ego-syntonic society, a hedonistic society, where they live for themselves and think they know it all and they will be the 'willing fools' for our strategy.
6459	That shot him up to the stardom.
6460	That’s how far ahead they were planning all this rubbish that we’re hearing about today with global warming and so on.
6461	That's how the system now works.
6462	That's how they made their fortunes.
6463	That’s how your opinions are formed SUBLIMINALLY for you… by osmosis.
6464	That’s more important.
6465	That’s NASA’s main job.
6466	That’s not seeking truth.
6467	That sounds so innocent doesn't it?
6468	That’s part of your austerity.
6469	Thats precisely what is happening now in the Eurozone.
6470	That's the exciting reality that has Ron Muhlenkamp, founder and portfolio manager of Muhlenkamp & Co.
6471	That’s the ‘in’ thing today, is working for free, to try to get a job.
6472	That’s the new system of justice.
6473	That's the only difference.
6474	That’s the only thing you could trust is your own reason.
6475	That’s the reason of actual languaje of Skopje people.
6476	That's the whole point.
6477	That still stood.
6478	That's to get everyone into exposing everything about themselves on the internet prior to getting a chip implanted in you, which will take over from the computer all together.
6479	That’s what I’m asking.
6480	That's what it means to the high masons.
6481	That’s what it means.) while maintaining protections for homeowners.
6482	That’s what it’s all about folks.
6483	That’s what they hope for, you’ll die first.
6484	That’s what they’re taught.
6485	That's what wars really do.
6486	That’s what was happening there.
6487	That’s where the EU-funded ACTMOST project came in.
6488	That’s why Germania Superlativa is pushing for the Papademos government which is infested with out of favor and unsuitable ministers (currently their poll rating stands at 8% v. the 44% achieved during the last election).
6489	That’s why I don’t care that much.
6490	That’s why it’s so beautiful.
6491	That's why our new project, which will help to boost transport security in Western Africa, is so crucial.
6492	That’s why Sahi draws on the iconography of the Nataraja in his depictions of Jesus as a device for contextualization.
6493	That's why they all die at the end of an age and need something to be reborn, something that is new, for that age.
6494	"That's why they are often used as representatives for other mosquito species."
6495	That's why they do psychological evaluations at school.
6496	That’s why they gave them reality shows and all the rest of it; everyone can be a star.
6497	That's why they gave them this education in school.
6498	That's why they pick a Jew for it.
6499	That’s why we’re all getting money taken from us to throw at Africa: there’s so much corruption it never ends up where it’s supposed to go.
6500	That was a big thing.
6501	That was all planned.
6502	That was its function when it was set up a long long long time ago; I think even back in the 30s.
6503	That was one of the tenants of communism, centralization of power and laws into one big system over one big system.
6504	That was part of the push of getting SUVs off the road, believe it or not; that's what was really behind that.
6505	That was their task: to find a reason they’d push.
6506	That was very unique, Brewster said.
6507	That will come; I’m not kidding you, that’s going to come.
6508	That will help me just move along, hopefully, until there’s no point in moving along any more.
6509	That would be an Australian first.
6510	That would explain why I get nutty when I deal with people like that.
6511	That you take Putin’s / Russia’s role in the current Syria crisis as proof of what a great, reliable ally Russia makes is a bit sick in my eyes.
6512	That you used to be michael kors bags uk said to be the sole.
6513	The “10 recommendations for libraries to support research data management” were finalized and prioritized during the final workshop at the LIBER-conference in Tartu.
6514	The 14 best European suppliers received awards for their excellent performance in supporting Huawei’s drive towards customer-centric innovation.
6515	The 1993 Act on Public Education enforces all freedoms – including the right of founding a school by a Church, or a legal entity and by a person – as well as the free choice of school by the parents.
6516	The 1997 Hannes Alfvén Medal is awarded to Charles F. Kennel in recognition of his authoritative contributions to space plasma physics.
6517	The 1st Issue of the I-SEARCH Newsletter The first Issue of the I-SEARCH biannual electronic Newsletter is now available for download.
6518	The 2000 Vilhelm Bjerknes Medal is awarded to Sergej Zilitinkevich for his outstanding contribution to the creation of modern theory of turbulent boundary layers in the atmosphere.
6519	The 2005 Green Paper on Energy Efficiency broadened the energy efficiency debate and, for the first time, the European Commission indicated that Europe ‘could save at least 20% of its present energy consumption in a cost-effective manner’.
6520	The 2015 PCI SIG proposals will be presented again at the 2014 PCI Community Meetings in Berlin (Oct 7-9).
6521	The 3 operational workpackages will run almost in parallel and there are some activities in common such as tests; the results will be concentrated in one product - the e-toolbox for SoftSkills.
6522	The 6th Framework Programme was intended as one of the main tools for the creation of the European Research Area (ERA) by integrating and coordinating research in Europe.
6523	The 7th Cavalry, and they wiped them out on the road, because you see their pride had been hurt for fighting the regiment and they wiped them out at Crazy Horse.
6524	“The 8th Charlemagne Youth Prize provides a great opportunity for young people from across Europe, including Scotland, to showcase their work and further develop their project and the financial boost certainly helps to achieve just that.
6525	The Academic Council is the forum where academic life and rules are discussed and decided, and academic appointments are confirmed.
6526	The academics are also really good, and the university brings you a good opportunity to look for accomodation.
6527	The access to the INFRAFRONTIER-I3 resources allocated to this work package is free of charge.
6528	The achievement is granted to a player on the winning team only.
6529	The activities of the Research Unit cover basic and applied research in the field of consumer health informatics and user-centred design in health information systems.
6530	The activities to be carried out in the context of a project can include: For detailed information, please download the official Guide for Applicants.
6531	The actual increase of subscriptions at national but mainly at international level (+/- 2000) would allow a more international diffusion of your information.
6532	The actual land used for bioenergy cropping depends on many assumptions, most notably so in the Transport sector (see also Appendix D). 39 Number is given for comparison only.
6533	The Adaptive Support and Learning Assistant is a new mean for learning offered to older adult workforce.
6534	The add-on "a learning theory for the digital age", that appears on Siemens, (2004) indicates the special importance that is given to the effect technology has on how people live, how they communicate, and how they learn.
6535	The administrative Court always rules in a division of three members.
6536	The administrator is (or nominates) the moderator of the archive.
6537	The advent of Namibian independence and his father’s participation in the South African Defense force resulted in his move to Schmidtsdrift army base in South Africa.
6538	The advent of the World Wide Web has reinforced this trend and clearly highlighted the problems related to document management.
6539	The advent of wide body aircraft a need for further airport development in the 1970s which had already been foreseen by the Ruler of Dubai and plans for a new Terminal, runways and taxiways capable of coping with international flights.
6540	The affected land can no longer support vegetation.
6541	The afternoon will conclude with a visit to Basaksehir Living Lab.
6542	The agreement also foresees regular meetings between the presidents of the two organisations and their secretaries general.
6543	The Agreement includes a detailed Governance and Data Policy document, which establishes rules for data collection, management and distribution, and intellectual property rights following the GEOSS Data Sharing Principles.
6544	The agreement that some norms simply must be superior to other norms is not reflected in any consensus regarding who should have final say on this.
6545	The aim has always been to keep their operation simple.
6546	The aim is for an overall agreement to be reached by June, to enable new investments to begin as early as mid-2015.
6547	The aim is the projection of the Research and Development (R&D) performed by CITIC on to the business area, through technology transfer.
6548	The aim is to discuss ways on how to improve science-policy-industry (SPI) links involving the key actors and to work together for ensuring regular information exchanges and improved transfer of research outputs to policy and industry.
6549	The aim is to establish a strong democratically led European bass society to ensure a solid platform for continuity in double bass convents in Europe as well as a collection of knowledge on European double bass work.
6550	The aim of a scoping exercise is to clearly establish the purpose and objectives of the mapping programme to make it clear exactly what it is trying to achieve, and why it is needed.
6551	The aim of PLOCAN is… Continue Reading SLR is dedicated to the sustainable development of natural resources.
6552	The aim of the prize is to improve air quality in cities and reduce the serious health risks posed b..
6553	The aim of the programme is to enable young people to gain a first-hand experience in the work of Delegations and an in-depth understanding of their role in the implementation of EU external policies.
6554	The aim of the seminar was to illustrate the project achievements and explain the potential to transfer its best practices beyond the partnership.
6555	The aim of this project is for young people to develop another vision of the past.
6556	The aim of this section is to engage with the question of justification, as well as with issues, which emerge from the attempt to apply justified norms to specific areas in politics and international relations.
6557	The aim was to achieve 'good ecological status' for a pilot area in line with the requirements of the EU’s Water Framework Directive.
6558	The aim was to publish the new schemas as soon as possible, but have them thoroughly tested to avoid having to publish bug fixes afterwards.
6559	The aircraft flew around downtown Madison and streamed two separate views: (1) A videos stream of downtown Madison and (2) an interactive Skype session between personnel in the aircraft and the audience at UC Davis.
6560	The Albanian courts have not been slow to react.
6561	The Albanian political forces in Macedonia are an integral part of Macedonian political life and we support that.
6562	The Al Ghurair Shopping complex is a few minutes walk away and a number of golf courses, Jumeirah beach and the Dubai International Convention Centre are a short drive from the hotel.
6563	The all-black face in the Fake Chopard Imperiale An Exciting-black Costume features twinkling light effects.
6564	The already implemented dissemination activities were presented and the implementation and monitoring of the Communication Plan was discussed.
6565	The altar is where you put the man or woman above the rest of the people.
6566	The alternative, termed ‘reinsurance’ here, would transfer funds to national unemployment insurance schemes to finance benefits from the centre to the periphery when unemployment is measurably higher than normal.
6567	The amount and duration of alimony depends on the income gap between the ex-partners, the duration of the marriage, the living standard during the marriage, and the division of labour that was practiced during the marriage.
6568	The amount of healthcare costs at 12 months after the stroke is €5,825 per patient, the rehabilitation costs being the 68,4%, namely €3,985.
6569	The amount of the maximum subsidy to be paid also depends on the number of inhabitants and the surface of the council/Province.
6570	The announcement says "We are looking for dynamic programmes which will stimulate the interest of the general public.
6571	The annual Ulster Festival of Art and Design, hosted on the Belfast campus, showcases the very best in international art and design.
6572	The answer lays within the way it is set up as an institution.
6573	The AOC prototype shows clear benefits in terms of operation cost optimization and demonstrates that recovery costs are reduced significantly if airborne alternatives are considered.
6574	The appellant maintained that his grandfather was a Lithuanian citizen, who was born on 15 January 1926 in Lithuania and left for South Africa in March 1926.
6575	The application form can be downloaded as a Word file from the linked website or can be provided by email to interested parties.
6576	The application of the Territorial Agenda for the EU might imply new opportunities for the attractiveness of many regions.
6577	The application procedure for Strand 1.1 (Multi-annual cooperation projects) and 1.2.1 (cooperation measures) with deadline 1 October 2010 is now available.
6578	The applications for the InnoTour USA will be closed on the 5th of January 2012.
6579	The appointee must have a strong background within geophysics and its application to petroleum related problems.
6580	The approach to the e-invoice standard is interesting.
6581	The area has been link spammed heavily -- 30 entries containing links to web sites promoting casinos, poker, dating and other topics, like this (I've removed the links): Great article and great website.
6582	The area was lacking facilities for youth and elderly and had a high deficit in design of public green space and squares.
6583	The article is available in the December Issue (No.3) of urbanDNA.
6584	The article shows definitions of the notion of document in different polish Penal Codes (kodeks karny 1932 r.; 1969 r.; 1997 r.) and notion of document between the Polish Penal Law of Criminal Process and the Polish Code of Civil Process.
6585	The artworks found within this CathedralChurch are also signs of that loving presence and his eternal purposes for the world.
6586	The assessment will focus primarily on the potential outcrossing of GM sugar beet to related crops and wild plant species.
6587	The association reflects the goal in three actions: sharing of experiences between European rural areas, supporting for the construction of European projects and awareness of European authorities on energy issues in the rural territories.
6588	The assumption is that CSF members representing the customer side engage in close dialogue with their member organisations representing bank customers at a national level.
6589	The Athens seminar by contrast was held in a beach hotel several kilometres from the city centre in order to strengthen the participants’ moral resolve to resist the cultural temptations of classical and modern Athens.
6590	"The Austria House is a very good example of how to effectively deal with energy and the heating problem can be solved."
6591	The author adds that "a world government is the only solution to world problems, such as climate change (A: Here we go again.
6592	The author demonstrates that the accurate legislative acts have helped to successfully fight the organized crime in the USA, Italy and Germany.
6593	The author of the adaptations for ‘the house museum’ from the year 1934 was Rudolf Baumfeld (1903–1988) a Jewish architect from Vienna.
6594	The availability of methods developed in the automotive industry and faster computers make their application to aero-engines timely.
6595	The availability of the material on site made the Project feasible because it meant that a hugely expensive and environmentally damaging operation to import soil to the site by road was not necessary.
6596	The average age of those who started OST with buprenorphine was 27.8 years.
6597	The average body weight of sprat by age in the 1950s to 1970s was higher than at present, but lower than during the 1980s to 1990s.
6598	The award carries a prize of 2,500 euros.
6599	The awarded proposals are for top ND scientists to come together and recommend how to address the most pressing issues that prevent full use of longitudinal cohorts.
6600	The awards were hosted by the Mayor of Hannover and European Commissioner for the Environment, Janez Potocnik (pictured, second left).
6601	The bacteria-eating nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is a particular favourite for this type of research.
6602	The Bangladeshi Model Prova Scandal is a series of events involving Bangladeshi Model and Actor.
6603	The bank gets the money.
6604	The banking and financial sectors in the Balkans rely on the solidity of Western banks that have massively invested in them.
6605	The basis for citizens’ privacy rights in Europe is Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR).
6606	The BEA identified in their projects mittelstandsspezifische innovation and provide possible solutions.
6607	The Belgian iPRO partner said that the conclusions of the focus group were considered, by the participant experts, useful in future discussions for redesigning the educational programs in the media and arts domain.
6608	The Benthic Ecology laboratory is at Ischia Porto (Naples) and the Turtle point at Bagnoli (Naples).
6609	The best colored contacts online store sells the very best in eye changing apparel!
6610	The best contributions will be invited to present their paper at a poster session during the 4th Future Internet Assembly which will take place in Stockholm on 23-24 November 2009.
6611	The best in home health care services will conduct an interview with the person before they receive care.
6612	The best-known anti-platelet medicine is aspirin, which decreases platelet stickiness and markedly reduces the risk of a heart attack or stroke in those who have already had one, or who have unstable angina.
6613	The best known result is certainly the parameterization of all controllers that stabilize a given plant, now referred to as Youla-Kucera parameterization.
6614	The best model parameters were obtained from fits to the profiles.
6615	The best of three cultures united in one Multicultural Musical Theater “Roots of eternity – die Wurzeln der Unendlichkleit”.
6616	The best part is that these resources are fast to download (on any platform) and are FREE.
6617	The best pupils did not really need the step plan, but the weaker ones did need and it.
6618	The best result would be achieved if GreenEcoNet offered companies information on the different financial systems available for green SMEs, that will be then able to select the best option applicable to their business.
6619	The best way to do it is to keep your cover letter brief and yet complete as possible.
6620	The big agendas are always planned way ahead of time by big think tanks that work for a global elite, and how the push is on now for the whole New World Order.
6621	The big boys at the top, I’ve read the articles, are making a fortune off it.
6622	The big issue with not holding such a conversation, however, is that Turkey is constantly emancipating itself from the EU as a strategic goal.
6623	The big picture on the Eurocrisis Fabian Zuleeg spoke at an ECFIN seminar on the long term change in direction of the European project resulting from the Eurocrisis and the associated governance changes.
6624	The big question is how to organise recycling sectors, and with what technologies.
6625	The biocompatibility of coated and non-coated PLGA scaffolds has been investigated using primary cardiovascular progenitor cells, and excellent biocompatibility was achieved.
6626	The biowiki might be the vehicle where term will be trashed out and the group chips in to come to a common understanding.
6627	The birth of Torino campus has been possible thanks to the support of big founders: The Torino campus has strong relationships with a number of Italian and international companies, which contribute to its governance.
6628	The blog provides you everything that you are searching over the web.
6629	The Bluetooth word mark and logos are owned by the Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by JVC Kenwood Corporation is under license.
6630	The board has decided to use e-voting as the method for choosing what sort of renovation plan they will pursue.
6631	The Board is confident he has the skills and attributes to ensure ESSP continues to provide a first class service to its customers, and to be a leading player in broadening and deepening EGNOS use.”
6632	The Board of Directors is entitled to hire staff within the framework of the annual operating budget and the respective project budgets.
6633	The board sets the zones where wind turbines may be erected, and current policy forbids these being erected on high ground, due to their aesthetic impact on the Black Forest.
6634	The Bologna process, it is hoped, can serve as a catalyst to assist medical education to respond to the challenges facing medicine today and as a vehicle to encourage reflection about the future of medical education in a global society.
6635	The bonding surfaces most be free from any dust and pollution.
6636	The bonita CDT showroom is equipped with modern technology to serve as a link between various stakeholders (such as businesses and international partners) and the university itself.
6637	The book publishing industry needs a dynamic system of data query that can quickly adapt to the requests coming from the evolving market conditions and the unpredictable customers’ behavior.
6638	The books I put out there are meant to show you the cons and the tricks that have been used down through the ages and to also show you that there IS a system running the world.
6639	The book was published by the Brno City Museum in cooperation with the Brno House of Arts and the Villa Tugendhat Foundation in three languages (Czech, German, English).
6640	The boot disk should eject and the machine restart from the hard drive.
6641	The brain does not respond to nutrients in the same way as it does to addictive drugs such as heroin or cocaine, the researchers say.
6642	The Brazilian middle-class has been getting wider since the last decade, as a result of which the internal consumption needs are also growing.
6643	The breed can also be affected by cateracts and other eye conditions, as well as some other breed-specific conditions, such as deafness.
6644	The breeding and use of animals is regulated by Czech law No. 246/1992 Sb. on protection of animals against maltreatment issued by Ministry of Agriculture on 14. April 2004.
6645	The BRGM’s Mineral Resource Economics Unit conducts economic intelligence work to support public policy development and commercial activities in this critical area.
6646	The BRICS have been calling for EU bonds from the onset of the financial crisis and would invest in them.
6647	The brightness can also be controlled separately, with an auto-dimmer function.
6648	The briliant ideea for functionality of Universal Document Converter is the technology of virtual printing.
6649	The broad use of telemedicine is hampered by rigid de…Telemedicine contributes to efficiency increase and leads to the accelerated development and use of the internet based electronic patient record.
6650	The Bronfman's were one of the biggest families with Alcan who made the schmucks buy the stuff because they told you this waste stuff was good for you.
6651	The building has an “L” shape, which creates a wide green area on the rectangular plot, which functions as a social square.
6652	The Bureau shall ensure the interface with the Commission and the Forum.
6653	The bureau should be able to accommodate abstract acutely answer its fees and services.
6654	The business community and especially those dealing in… Continue Added by Jose Feneque, DVM on May 5, 2008 at 3:26am — No Comments The International NanoScience Community Welcome!
6655	The business process design may either be manually or automatically deduced from the interaction choreography model.
6656	The bus stop opposite, in front of the Dennison Centre, will take you to The Lawns.
6657	The cable and satellite sector, including American TV fiction-oriented channels, has been gradually directing Polish audiences away from the terrestrial broadcasters.
6658	The cafe will include a presentation from the European Environment Agency (EEA) on its idea for a framework for data monitoring in Europe.
6659	The Cagliari event gathered citizens, public administrations, enterprises and universities to discuss about open data, assess the local scenario and encourage the adoption of open data policies.
6660	The calculators provided by the test centre are very practical - with big buttons and displays, easy to use, no time wasted.
6661	The call for applications for the 10th Migration Summer School: Framing Migration Differently: From Implicit Problem to Implied Asset is now closed.
6662	The Campus is located the Jerónimos Monastery (XVIII century) with an area of over 225.000 square meters, gardens, parking, sports facilities and university residence.
6663	The Canadian government has disability..
6664	The Canadian measure fell even before making it to the necessity test, because Canada failed to prove that it ‘secured compliance’ with the designated law.
6665	The candidates must have a Ph.
6666	The capacity building will focus on the monitoring frameworks and tools, including ISO governance standards and the case study of Bulgaria’s environment policy before and after joining the EU.
6667	The carafe works well so fha condominium guidelines spillage is not a yamaha keyboards manuals and manuuals importantly my initial experience is that this machine makes good coffee.
6668	The carbon tax started July 1, 2008 at a rate of CAD 10 per metric ton on combustion emissions and rises by CAD 5/t a year for the subsequent four years, reaching CAD 30 per metric ton by 1 July 2012.
6669	The caress is play too, complacently enjoying carnal intimacy and relishing the nearness and accessibility of my beloved.
6670	The case studies reveal the flexibility of this approach, which is found useful for the rapid assessment of the risks of flooding and erosion for a range of scenarios and the likely effectiveness of flood defences.
6671	The catalogue of programs includes videos on for example wind power, biomedical engineering, and on recycling computer and electronic products, with monthly additions in HD.
6672	The CCBE asked the European organisations and institutions to address the Georgian authorities with the request to provide information on actions which have been undertaken in relation to the cases mentioned in the letters.
6673	The CD may be able to allocate to certain hosts in the LN some fixed addresses based solely on their MAC addresses, or it may set apart an address range for them which is not assigned to other devices via DHCP or similar.
6674	The CD's comprise: A single interactive CD-ROM containing the entire Futurecoast analysis for 6000km of shoreline, containing approximately 3000 pages of reported analysis and over 70,000 mapped features.
6675	The central Istria wine-growing hills (around Buzet and Pazin) spread over some 516.44 acres, while in the eastern part (near Labin), there are around 255 acres of vine grapes.
6676	The central role of the local authority in the creation of this innovative form of local welfare is even more important than the mentoring support itself.
6677	The Centre for Embedded Design and Networking was founded in 2002 at the Baden-Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University in Loerrach, Germany.
6678	The centre was established to offer treatment and research with the direction of Dr.
6679	‘The Chain Game’ illustrates most concepts of the project, like supply chain visibility and supply chain control.
6680	The chair of the Humanist Democratic Centre (CDH) Joëlle Milquet, Deputy Prime Minister and Employment Minister criticised "the lack of any sense of general interest" on the part of Open VLD.
6681	The Challenge did not explain why a response had been filed.
6682	The challenge for Capital Markets Union is to connect those investors with SMEs and startups.
6683	The challenge is how to transfer this vision into practice.
6684	The challenge is therefore to find the middle way.
6685	The challenges lie ahead.
6686	The challenges of an ever-changing global society call for action.
6687	The challenge would be to give additional assurances to the Serb majority in the North while guaranteeing the functioning and the identity of the Kosovo state.
6688	The chancellor who is in charge of the treasury is still called the chancellor today.
6689	The chance to play Czech Gambrinus liga came after I had scored 10 goals for the reserve.
6690	The changes above will be applicable to aircraft operated by European airlines.
6691	The changing world of records management: Requirements of digital storage.
6692	The chemical identification of the psychoactive principle of Salvia divinorum was completed simultaneously by Ortega and Valdés in the early 1980s.
6693	The chemical process that causes this is known as the Maillard Reaction; it also ‘browns’ food and affects its taste.
6694	The Chicago Department of Public Health intends to turn heads by doctoring images of teenage boys to make them pregnant in order to raise awareness about teen pregnancies.
6695	The Children’s Medicines Working Party is composed of academic paediatricians, regulators, patients’ advocacy groups, and pharmaceutical industry associates.
6696	The Chinese I met are often unaware that their ominous silence over these tricky and heartbreaking domestic issues is a significant source of distrust for the outside world vis-à-vis Beijing.
6697	The choice is not between a Euro of 17 or a Union of 27, but how to strengthen the euro zone by avoiding the current intergovernmental coup and reaffirming the need for the Community method.
6698	The CHOICE partners are very proud to announce that the project has been selected to host an exhibition booth at the ICT2015 in Lisbon, Portugal on October 20-22, 2015.
6699	The circular economy is the best long-run approach to return the UK to sustainable growth.
6700	The circumstance that the licensee is not selling products or services under the trademark does not imply that the license agreement is not genuine.
6701	The cities are interested in such a training programme for all actors involved in the construc- tion sector.
6702	The city has everything one needs: It is right by the sea, so you can enjoy some nice beaches in the summer.
6703	The city has over 180 kilometres of bicycle tracks, making bicycle the transportation of choice for most students, faculty and staff.
6704	The City identifies growth-opportunities, resource-priorities, and assists companies to apply for relevant funds.
6705	The city is currently preparing a next-generation mobility plan in cooperation with a variety of stakeholders – the Gdynia SUMP, which will be adopted as a legally binding document.
6706	The city… Norrmalms stadsdelsförvaltning, Stockholm Stad The City of Stockholm has a well established system for social services and for elderly care.
6707	The city of Burgos, as a paradigmatic city at Spanish level, will try to compile the best practices in Europe and offer the knowledge at national level.
6708	The city of Lausanne has been involved for many years in Research and Development of new transportation systems (Serpentine and Swissmetro are the most famous examples).
6709	The City of Porvoo is leading WP5 on IDEAS (demonstration and validation).
6710	The city’s climate friendly food strategy has trained more than 1,000 employees in the city in sustainable cooking skills, promoting low-climate impact food across the city.
6711	The city's restaurants offer traditional slavic and international cuisines for every pocket, from a Michelin starred restaurant to milk bars often frequented by students serving low budget and tasty food.
6712	The claim to the Spratly/Kalayaan islands was made official, oil exploration started.
6713	The cleanest energy, and the cheapest energy, is the energy we don’t use.
6714	The client/sponsor expects value for money and results need to match the amount of time and effort that is supposed to have been invested in the exercise.
6715	The Clients Success team together with the University Value compromises the Business Development team within StudyPortals.
6716	The clinic provides medical attendance for the full spectrum of psychiatric patients on the one hand in the regional supply on the other hand as a leader institution of psychiatric care.
6717	The clockmaking industry influenced the workers’ ways of thinking, skills and social environment.
6718	The close links between globalisation and competiveness are discussed with OECD’s secretary general, Angel Gurria, while both the attractions and hurdles of European markets are put under the spotlight.
6719	The Code of Judicial Procedure contains many examples.
6720	The collaboration carries out research on an FPGA-based test bed and the specific applications are the energy profiling of the test bed and the implementation of some interference management techniques.
6721	The collection and analysis of such data (algorithms) can lead to some conclusions regarding the consumption of fuel per journey, identifying areas with slower traffic, places or situations that increase stress levels of drivers, among others.
6722	The Combat Mission system will be diverse and interesting.
6723	The combination of these two different levels of Technical Indicators will hence guarantee the systematic and complete Validation of all the IT aspects of a Trial.
6724	The Commision even made wrong calculations over European keynesian multiplier, and once discovered the mistake, they didn’t change their austerity policy!
6725	The Commission and NGVA Europe do agree on the fact that the next decade is crucial to reach the 2050 goals, we need to act now.
6726	The Commissioner and the President agreed that signing the Association Agreement, including the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area (DCFTA) in June, is a top priority.
6727	The Commission is therefore proposing to remove the reference to Article 95 of the European Treaty in the Deliberate Release Directive.
6728	The Commission published their long‐awaited Green Paper on Pensions on 7 July, with a deadline for responses of 15 November.
6729	The Commission should also tackle the root causes of radicalisation.
6730	The Commission should also target measures which discriminate against Roma people.
6731	The Commission should also use the expertise at universities in developing cutting-edge proposals on regulatory cooperation.
6732	"The Commission should also watch national action plans closely.
6733	The Commission should leave this type of waste for the market to deal with.'
6734	The Commission wants this leadership to be maintained, moving even further ahead in safety and environmental performance.
6735	The Commission will do its best to open a debate, to make proposals, and it will take us one year or more to know what is feasible and what is not.
6736	The Commission will make it a priority to promote stability at Europe’s borders.
6737	The Committee concurs with the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights that access to urgent medical care must be ensured to all migrant workers on the basis of equality of treatment with nationals and thus on a non-discriminatory basis.
6738	The committee has endorsed a deal which includes a number of crucial measures that will deliver concrete energy savings in a bid to meet the EU's energy goals for 2020.
6739	The Committee on European Affairs may examine practically any draft proposal which is to be adopted by the Council, and it can influence the Government’s position in EU decision-making procedure.
6740	The Committee referred to in paragraph 1 shall annually ascertain that the operations of the Bank have been conducted and its books kept in a proper manner.
6741	The committees' text changes the form of the legal act from a directive, which EU countries would have had to transpose into their national laws, into a regulation, which would apply directly in all of them.
6742	The Common Fisheries Policy should reflect this in a more comprehensive manner.
6743	The common interest of all Europe will always have an Irishness about it.
6744	The Commons alone is responsible for making decisions on financial Bills, such as proposed new taxes.
6745	The common support model, once up and running, will be monitored and evaluated by the transnational support network, thereby facilitating more business opportunities across the NWE.
6746	The Community Lover's Guide To The Universe Chiara Camponeschi works at the intersection of interdisciplinary research, social innovation and urban sustainability.
6747	The Community will only be able to extend eastwards and take in EFTA countries if it can create institutional mechanisms which allow new states to enjoy the benefits concomitant with membership of the Union, without paralysing the decision-making process.
6748	The company had nominated a project for Virgin Games.
6749	The company has vast experience in designing communication and dissemination activities for European projects (see website for more information: www.fgm.at). FGM-AMOR has long lasting experience in carrying out cycling projects.
6750	The company offers a wide range of products to fulfil the storage management requirements.
6751	The company’s aluminium systems were most readily and most often chosen by customers.
6752	The company specializes in air conditioning in Cincinnati, heating repair Cincinnati, and Cincinnati air conditioning repair.
6753	The company Sunwell ApS is managing the installation of the solar wells, and behind the company are two local companies – IC Electric and Hedensted VVS Service – who are collaborating in developing the solar well concept.
6754	The company was founded in 1995 and has operated since 2006 under the name EuroHold Bulgaria AD.
6755	“The compass of the ship points to one direction only: the vision for a Better Europe, closer to the citizens, its neighbours and the world at large.”
6756	The competent authorities can withdraw your approved status if you abuse it in any way.
6757	The competition is divided in to three steps which will all take part commencing spring 2012.
6758	The competitors receive help from co-ordinators and tutors of their works.
6759	The Complainant filed its complaint on 30 June 2006 and submitted new documents attached to this complaint.
6760	The Complainant is not aware that EDT has any registered national or Community trademarks for the word EUROSTAR alone, without any other distinguishing matter.
6761	The complete digital representation of the entire physical value chain is our ultimate goal.
6762	The comprehensive report includes also photos showing clearly the risks.
6763	The conception of discretion and the possibilities of controlling administrative discretion are studied in this article.
6764	The concept of 3D Internet has recently come into the spotlight in the R&D arena, catching the attention of many people, and leading to a lot of discussions.
6765	The concept related blocks start with general information applicable to all series within the block and then the series-specific details follow.
6766	The concern for the loss of biodiversity has led to the biodiversity convention of 1992 and to EU's 2010 aim to stop the loss of biodiversity.
6767	The condition results in red blood cells becoming vulnerable to attacks by the body’s own complement immune system and can lead to complications such as anemia, kidney disease and fatal thromboses.
6768	The conducted experiments have allowed us to characterize different damage regimes.
6769	The conference combines expertise in the noise and vibration fields by stressing common measurement, modelling, analysis and control technologies.
6770	The conference consisted of a number of workshops that were of high importance to EUD’s work programme.designed to identify solutions to specific challenges and plenary sessions designed to synthesize the discussions and identify the way forward.
6771	The conference invites original technical papers that have not been previously published and are not currently under review for publication elsewhere.
6772	The Conference is organized in the frame of COST Action MP1005 (NAMABIO) and will include also the results obtained during four years by most of the 200 members belonging to 34 countries.
6773	The Conference Programme combines strategic keynote presentations, technical and policy papers, case studies, workshops, an exhibition and social activities.
6774	The conference saw researchers, donors and practitioners come together to share their understanding of the challenges facing households in conflict and fragile states and how the international community could better address these issues.
6775	The conference was outstandingly organised and held in the magnificent building of Zappeion Megaron.
6776	The conference will consider topics including: Conservation Methods and Materials Research and Treatment Development All aspects of the conservation, study and research of metallic cultural heritage are welcome and papers may explore other topics.
6777	The conference will raise a number of questions.
6778	The conference will seek to answer the question how to reorganise care delivery and provide measurable and high quality and accessible continence care services in a financially sustainable way.
6779	The Connected Histories website is fully searchable and provides access to millions of pages of text, hundreds of thousands of words and tens of thousands maps and images.
6780	The consequence of the patent expiring, is a patent cliff and loss of billions from one day to another."
6781	The considerations of this task force are reflected in the document 'Improving the Efficiency of the Handling of Cash - Cash Cycle Models'.
6782	The construction of a film sorting machine will lead to savings in CO2 emissions, energy and water consumption.
6783	The construction of the first tank is foreseen in 25 days and the testing will be conducted in the next 30 days in order to get the most accurate data.
6784	The construction of the self.
6785	The consultation runs until 16 August 2013.
6786	The content of the eligible assets list has also been published via the Market Information Dissemination (MID) system since 15 June 2015.
6787	The content of the programme is open to most genres: daily news programmes, weekly news programmes, or a wide range of feature and specialist programmes, all are welcome.
6788	The contents are generally related to those of the CESBA guide.
6789	The contest is open to all the different forms of videos produced by museums: overall presentation of the institution, description of specific items into permanent or temporary exhibitions, works for website or social network, and other.
6790	The continuing executions, the violence and censorship are unacceptable”, Schaake says.
6791	The contractor also input into discussions on design and buildability to ensure the quality of the final building.
6792	The contractor finished all tasks in the end of july 2012, including installation of moisture sensors, piezometers and grass covering as well.
6793	"The contribution of corporate social responsibility to sustainable development."
6794	The contribution that the forestry sector makes to national GDP and the employment and income benefits that accrue for people and organisations engaged in forest-based enterprises is significant and is increasingly recognised.
6795	The Cooltura App experiment was of interest for both the CSI and for the IUL LUTIN, and because Mobile Applications for the Museum is an important topic, they plan to organize a Workshop about the making of Mobile Application for the Museum.
6796	The Corkjack is chrome plated corkscrew with unique jacking action, non-stick coated spiral and smart satin finish.
6797	The Council also discussed energy indicators to monitor climate and energy policies.
6798	The Council and Commission may make (non-binding) recommendations to Member States concerning their employment policies.
6799	The Council confirmed the level of the duty for those Chinese exporters of solar panels who cooperated with the investigations.
6800	The Council has adopted new Staff Regulations on 22 March 2004.
6801	The Council instructed the European Commission to report back to it on the various applications for accession.
6802	The Council of Europe, which has been involved recently in detailed discussions with the Turkish government on press freedom, is probably best placed to achieve this.
6803	The Council of State had no objections.
6804	The Council on Foreign Relations, if you bother to read them, will tell you where the world is going in their Foreign Affairs magazine, has pretty well never been wrong, ever.
6805	The Council strongly condemns, as all the previous times, the developments in eastern Ukraine and in order not to seem that it has no teeth the council decided to extend the agreed in March last year economic sanctions with another six months.
6806	The Council welcomes the Commission's proposal for macro-financial assistance to Ukraine and looks forward to its swift adoption.
6807	The country is divided into twelve administrative provinces, which are further parted into 430 municipalities.
6808	The country reports will be available to them.
6809	The country was only saved from bankruptcy in December 2008 thanks to loans of 5.27 billion lats (7.05 billion €) granted to it by the IMF (1.3 billion €) and the European Union (3.1 billion €).
6810	The coupled models let us work out how this complex aquifer could be exploited as well as determine its vulnerability to seawater intrusion.
6811	The course is at an introductory level and therefore beneficial to researchers at the beginning of their career (e.g. recently started PhD-students, junior researchers, young professional researchers).
6812	The course is constantly offered opportunities by industry organisations to involve students in work-based activities.
6813	The course objective is to provide foreign students with a flavour of the rich French culture.
6814	The course provides a comprehensive overview of drug development from discovery to marketing approval, with special emphasis on drug safety aspects.
6815	The courses do not offer credits.
6816	The court accepted on Sept. 11 the indictment charging members of the çArşı of a “coup attempt” against the government.
6817	The Court – after a very short and simplified procedure – decides on the enforceability of the decision.
6818	The couture had its pick after the second world war with the popular appeal of Christian Dior’s “New Look” in 1947.
6819	"The CR 30-X is the ideal solution for any imaging facility that wants to go digital, whether it is used in a multi-million dollar PACS environment or in a small imaging practice.
6820	The crew is well prepared and all the systems, weapons and sensors, are fully operational and ready to deployment”.
6821	The crucial thing was that there was more of a tradition of coalition building; different actors realized they needed to sit and negotiate the basic rules of the political game – in a way it didn’t happen in Egypt, for example.
6822	The CSF‘s next steps will be another meeting in Warsaw later this year with smaller thematic meetings in between.
6823	The CTS diagnostic system will consist of mirrors and antennas integrated in the Equatorial Port Plug 12 of the ITER machine.
6824	The current action programme will end in 2013.
6825	The current challenges arising out of Czech population trends Inequality in life spans and a new perspective on mortality convergence across industrialized countries Job vacancy rates (%) and change compared with the same quarter of the previous year (p.
6826	The currently registered 300+ users are organized into various international and regional VOs on the European Grid Infrastructure (e.
6827	The current programme helps to reduce energy consumption and increase energy efficiency by using ICT applications.
6828	The current projects which Mike Rosner is involved in are CLARIN (FP7 Infrastructures) and MPROM (University of Malta).
6829	The current talks are vague - the new governance approach needs to create clear rules to guarantee Member States contribute their fair share.”
6830	The customary form of printing discount is when the printing company offers buyers a percentage off the entire quantity paid for, Ralph Lauren Outlet.
6831	The custom designed ones, however, trigger just a little covetousness, over all that roominess and potential for versatility, knowing it is “reserved” for the car.
6832	The DAE, which includes more than 100 distinct actions, calls for the Commission to reinforce the activities bringing together stakeholders around common research agendas.
6833	The DA final programme is processed into the “ID iteration” module.
6834	• The dance centre of London Sadler’s Wells has been a guest in the Istanbul Theatre Festival with the choreography of one of the masters of contemporary dance, Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui.
6835	The dance is led by the mother-in-law, who wears a flour strainer on her head and holds a pitcher of red wine in her right hand.
6836	The Danish healthcare system i.e. hospital service, including psychiatry as well as health insurance, general practitioners and specialists, is administered by the five regions in Denmark.
6837	The Danish Presidency is now tabling a compromise text, which it hopes will be accepted at the next Environment Council, on 9th March.
6838	The data are derived from FRP observations by the SEVIRI and MODIS instruments, which are provided by the EUMETSAT LSA SAF and NASA, respectively.
6839	The database can be interrogated to select projects based on parameters such as their distance from the coast, the technology/ technologies at the site, or the elements of monitoring they are carrying out, for example.
6840	The database contains the main Latin-American HPC R&D institutions that hold or have a link to HPC supercomputers in the region, as well as several others in the EU.
6841	The data quoted originates from Gemius internet sites traffic measurement (gemiusTraffic) conducted by Gemius in more than 20 countries in Europe, Middle East and North Africa (EMEA region).
6842	The data will show how diseases such as the flu can become pandemics.
6843	The day-to-day conduct of the project falls under the responsibility of the T2S Board, a management body appointed by the Governing Council and supported by the T2S Programme Office of the ECB.
6844	The debate on climate change takes place on Tuesday 9 June and the vote the next day.
6845	The debt crisis has contributed to this immensely.
6846	The decision must be duly justified; (c) the procedure is closed without awarding any contract.
6847	The decision on what type of waste can be finally used in a certain plant cannot be answered uniformly.
6848	The decision was made after abolishing of visas for the last group of western Balkan countries - Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania at the end of last year.
6849	The dedicated cash accounts will be used exclusively for settlement purposes in T2S and will be linked to the participants’ cash accounts held in TARGET2 or another non-euro central bank RTGS account.
6850	The definition and prioritization of the projects should be objective-driven, for each of them to demonstrate its impact and its relevance.
6851	The deflection of the surface current has an angle of 45°.
6852	The Delcam company provides comprehensive designs through manufacture system for companies that are new to CADCAM or that are looking to replace old or obsolete software.
6853	The demand for such laser sources with a high potential market volume comes not only from cutting applications but arises from the suitability to process organic material.
6854	The dens biomass on the aerial roots causes the water to remain on the pneumatophores.
6855	The department appoints the research adviser and two other members of the research committee to be readers of the draft dissertation.
6856	The department has a number of seasoned researchers for research and teaching and skilled engineers and technicians.
6857	The department has been responsible for the coordination of several R&D projects (all dealing with digital library issues) in the 4th and 5th framework programmes, as well as in the EU programmes eContent and eTEN.
6858	The Department of Administrative Cases of the Supreme Court is the court of first instance for cases concerning Central Election Commission's decision to refuse registration of bills and amendment to the Constitution.
6859	The destruction brought to eastern Ukraine and the destabilization of the country have wider implications for Russia—implications that are more severe than the ongoing low-intensity conflict in the North Caucasus.
6860	The development and marketing of bigger, dirtier cars by the German car industry has undercut emissions reductions from other carmakers.
6861	The development of a European standard monitoring instrument on drug law offences and of indicators on intra-European drug production will be key in the drug-related crime area, together with defining priorities for research.
6862	The development of the mining sector has in turn led to the development of a local offer of mining goods and services.
6863	The diamond-back moth is a serious pest for cultivated cruciferous plants, including oilseed rape.
6864	The diesel engine is currently the most efficient internal combustion engine technology.
6865	The difference is that the Bt genes introduced into the plants have been shortened and adapted to the plants.
6866	The different ontologies developed as well as the ontologybased components were introduced to the attendees.
6867	The Dignity and Truth group was created to protest against the actions of the government, which led to an “occupation of public institutions by political parties” and an “unprecedented undermining of the financial and banking sector”.
6868	The dinner will be hosted in the original ballroom from the authentic palace that dates back to the 19th Century.
6869	The directive has been effective since October 2002.
6870	The directive simply provides creators with the tools to protect their rights while preserving consumer expectations.
6871	The directorate general for trade organised two broad meetings with civil society – the first was addressed by DG Trade Director General Jean-Luc Demarty on 21 April, the second took place at technical level on 8 May.
6872	The discussions will be based on examples and reflections from selected ECVET experiences, research, projects and initiatives.
6873	The discussion will be followed by a cocktail reception.
6874	The display shows only the settings.
6875	The district heating system now supply heat to approximately 1400 of the 2000 inhabitants in Lagan, Sweden, using biofuels.
6876	The Dobermann was bred primarily for the purposes of guarding and protecting.
6877	The document adds to a very complete description of the implemented platform a comprehensive set of instructions to install and use the source code available on the EURESCOM FTP site.
6878	The document entitled Delivery Order has been added to the set of documents of this report, as it may be required for customs clearance.
6879	The domain names AOLMAIL and AOLSPAIN are confusingly similar to the Complainant’s rights.
6880	The DPL also housed a WiFi access point, providing network access to a set of tablet computers that visitors could use to explore the live panoramic image.
6881	The drafting of the „Pilot Standards“ was an iterative process that was made very transparent to the public.
6882	The draft prepared by Ms Morin-Chartier is a step in the right direction.
6883	The Drone business enterprise is predicted to show exponential growth in the next decade.
6884	The Dutch Greens choose for deeper European integration combined with more economic regulation, serious investments in the development of a green and innovative economy, and better democratic control.
6885	The DWMA asked the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment to discuss this situation with a amount of soil remediation residues landfilled structurally higher than in 2011.
6886	The EACCME is an institution of the European Union of Medical Specialists (UEMS): www.uems.net. The European Stroke Conference is usually accredited with 18 credits.
6887	The early prototype is showing promise but it is only the first version.
6888	The early solo installations all tinkered with adroit, deliberate combinations of words, imagery, sounds, and filmed actions, titled in wordplays such as Altar-Nativity (1990), or In Different Out Looks (1991).
6889	The ease and comfort of the boots is as none other that men and women have worn.
6890	The ease of use as well as the robustness of this chamber allows reproducible separation of proteins in a minimum of time.
6891	‘The Eastern Partnership is all about creating the conditions that will unlock and fulfil the potential for growth, enterprise, and creativity of citizens in Eastern Europe.
6892	The easy way to do it now, is to look on the internet and find a provider.
6893	The EBTP was pleased to announce the appointment of two new Steering Committee members Niels Ole Knudsen, DONG Energy, and Pierre Porot, IFP Energies Nouvelles, who will also continue as a Vice-chair of Working Group 2 (Conversion).
6894	The eCall system automatically dials Europe's single emergency number 112 in the event of a serious accident and communicates the vehicle's location to the emergency services.
6895	The ECB services could be invited to reflect on whether they are satisfied that a reasonable balance has been struck between the individual right to engage in work and the public interest.
6896	The ECC cannot compel traders to take any action Furthermore, the ECCs are collecting and analyzing information on consumer cases for statistical and policy-making purposes.
6897	The EC-funded project ABC4Trust takes up the heritage of the PRIME and PrimeLife projects and will deploy systems using Attribute-based credentials in actual production pilots and deliver open reference implementations.
6898	The ECMEG will meet at least five times between now and mid-2015.
6899	The Economic Crisis, Education and the Labour Market Conference - Brussels, EESC, 99 Rue Belliard, Room JDE 52, Belgium Speech by Commissioner Androulla Vassiliou I would like to thank Mr Nilsson for inviting me to address this conference.
6900	The economic recovery within the case study and nationally remains limited.
6901	The Ecotax is a tax that applies to all HGV’s above 3.5 tons.
6902	The ecovillage is expected to expand to eventually reach the 150 units originally planned.
6903	The ECREA website has just become accessible again.
6904	The EDIT VALUE tool is a holistic analytical approach for unveiling resource efficiency potentials in industrial companies.
6905	The EEA-CC meets once a year and is currently chaired jointly by Ms Liina Carr, the EESC member, and Mr Thomas Angell, the chairman of the EFTA Consultative Committee.
6906	The EEA does not provide funding for projects as described in your enquiry.
6907	The EEAS has delegations in all corners of the world which represent the EU as a whole, work on behalf of Europeans and which have a similar role to that of an embassy.
6908	"The effectiveness of the system and its ability to save lives on Europe's road remains questionable, with the very real potential for false emergency calls.
6909	The efficient portfolios have the highest possible expected return for a given risk, or the lowest possible degree of risk for a given mean rate of return (Aerts et. al. 2008).
6910	The EIT has provided the KICs with a great degree of autonomy to define their legal status, internal organisation and working methods.
6911	The EIT Roundtables gather high level stakeholders in a secluded setting in order to discuss strategies and practices of the EIT and its KICs.
6912	The election results allowed him to become the bloc group leader at the Kiev City Council.
6913	The electoral campaign that started on 16th December will end on the last day of this year.
6914	The electricity produced is primarily sold to the grid and the heat is used partly for substrate heating in the reactors and partly on the farm for various purposes (heat for milk processing, heating of rooms and office buildings).
6915	The electricity was bought by Hidroelectrica at a price higher than the one at which it later resold it.
6916	The electronic invoice is then directly submitted to the accounting system of the Austrian Federal Government.
6917	The ELI’s ongoing work on the CESL will be presented by Christiane Wendehorst, member of the Working Group on the CESL Statement.
6918	The emergence of a large dominant party, alongside other more narrowly focused and more intensely doctrinaire groupings on the right and left, could accelerate the trend towards such technological managerialism.
6919	The emergency maybe lies in some of the uses and perhaps in not recognizing that there is a tremendous resource under the ground that is not been utilized properly.
6920	The EMIF-Platform, by using modular functions, advanced search, analysis and visualization functionalities, and navigation interfaces, will allow the data to be available for browsing and exploitation in multiple ways by the end user.
6921	The emphasis is on the infection’s natural cycle, including basic biology of vectors and disease reservoirs, and on vector control interventions and their systematic evaluation.
6922	The emphasis of the call to action is that everyone must play a part to reduce their environmental footprint no matter how small the action.
6923	The ENA is being launched at the start of the week-long Nitrogen and Global Change conference in Edinburgh (11-14 April).
6924	The engagement of the EU in peacekeeping efforts is demonstrated by the mere development of its CSDP of which Africa remains a center of gravity with 10 missions and operations deployed on the continent.
6925	The engineering of modern software systems is very hard.
6926	The ensuing Commission proposal was subsequently subject to the co-decision procedure, during which Parliament coined the motto of the Year: "Our world, our dignity, our future".
6927	The ENSURE project is researching creating an architecture for long term digital preservation solutions for organizations with financial constraints.
6928	The entire CBE 2 - April - Varna folder and all its contents will be deleted.
6929	The entire Leaflet folder and all its contents will be deleted.
6930	The entries are reviewed before publishing and will remain public for 6 months unless we are notified of your wish to unpublish it.
6931	The EPC is actively involved in promoting responsible advertising through its participation in EASA (European Advertising Standards Alliance) and as a member of the Advertising Roundtable set up by DG SANCO.
6932	The EPP Group considers that, for trade negotiations, a certain amount of confidentiality should be maintained, so as not to undermine the EU's own position in the negotiations.
6933	The equipment was all set up, we had shouted about Mary’s ‘snow-white fleeced’ lamb and yet still nothing.
6934	The ERA-NET (European Research Area) Scheme, aims to coordinate and create cooperation of national and regional programmes and is a scheme for national and regional programme makers and managers.
6935	The ERC encourages in particular proposals that cross disciplinary boundaries, pioneering ideas that address new and emerging fields and applications that introduce unconventional, innovative approaches.
6936	The ESC told Bulc that its member companies should be able to take maximum advantage of the internal European market.
6937	The ESDN Office Team at the WU Institute for Managing Sustainability We send you this newsletter because you have subscribed to receive it at www.sd-network.eu. If you wish to unsubscribe, please click here.
6938	The established entity must comply with the EU tax and social security obligations.
6939	The establishment of withdrawal periods is part of the marketing authorisation procedure for each individual veterinary medicinal product and is not simply substance related.
6940	The ETICS project sheet is available.
6941	The EtOH production cost was minimised by low price of the waste based raw material and the distillation steam compared to typical straw and wood EtOH production plants.
6942	The EU again continues to be behind the US, Japan and South Korea.
6943	The EU also provides assistance to Kyrgyzstan through programmes at a national level.
6944	"The EU and its Member States stand in solidarity with the people affected by the recent extreme floods in Southeast Europe.
6945	The EU and the UK Election: Dissection, Reflection, Direction “European citizens should be fully involved in the continuation of the constituent process!”
6946	The EU as an administrative obstacle to mobility Madi Sharma, insisted on the fact that the EU administration system makes it very complicated for people to launch their own business,: “Administrative steps are a nightmare”.
6947	The EU attaches great importance to maintaining a genuine and open minded dialogue on human rights with China in all possible fora, including among parliamentarians."
6948	The EU can pull off a coup here.
6949	The EU-China FIRE initiative has launched a call for articles on EU-China collaboration on FIRE and IPv6 topics to be published on the EU-China FIRE online community platform.
6950	The EU-China FIRE project aims at strengthening cooperation in the Future Internet Research and Experiment (FIRE) and IoT is one important area of cooperation.
6951	The EU-China investment relationship is already strengthening.
6952	The EuCNC 2014 International Conference (Bologna, Italy, June 23-26, 2014).
6953	The EU-Commission will now consider withdrawal of the Directive, as all matters concerning taxation in the EU require unanimity.
6954	The EU exports more cattle / beef than it imports (454,000 vs 304,000 tonnes in 2013.
6955	The EU funded coordination action CPSOS has compiled a state of the art report and identified the challenges for this field.
6956	The EU has an inclusive approach to democracy, human rights and the rule of law that we are keen to share with partners around the world.
6957	The EU has not grown to be an eastern gravitas in a two-pillar entity.
6958	· The EU has to provide more added-value to the health of EU citizens, promoting preventive measures - in particular fostering healthy lifestyles and fighting for food safety and against food fraud.
6959	The EU initiative of DG Energy has co-funded 58 communities in 22 projects in 23 countries and started in 2005.
6960	The EU is also pleased with the resolutions adopted by consensus on the Democratic Republic of Congo, Guinea and Somalia, providing technical assistance and support for capacity-building.
6961	The EU is doing a deal now with Israel on data transfers of all people.
6962	The EU is far, far, far too undemocratic – why on Earth would I want my country to adopt a lower and lesser form of democracy than that afforded by the corrupt and easily-corruptible EU?
6963	The EU is funding the MARSOL project with 5.2 million Euros over 3 years under the WATER-INNO-DEMO scheme.
6964	The EU made a prompt and substantial contribution to this process of political transition, restoration of stability, and relaunching of development, and is determined to continue its efforts to aid Mali.
6965	The EU must encourage meaningful democratic and judicial reforms.
6966	The EU needs Greece but if worst comes to worst we don’t need the EU.
6967	The EU now has the tools at hand to defend key EU interests and pursue more relevant relations with industrialised and so-called “graduated” countries, addressing major global challenges.
6968	The EUPPA general assembly has approved yesterday new statutes and elected a new board at its meeting in Brussels earlier this week.
6969	The EU response should be three-fold.
6970	The Eurocrats regular income is already a kind of bribe, plus all the benefits they get through promoting the interests of the lobby groups.
6971	The Euro-DEN database was searched to identify cases from 1 October 2013 to 30 June 2014 where heroin had been used prior to presentation.
6972	The Euro just destroyed the industry in the Southern countries.
6973	The Europäische Akademie has developed a Computational Policy Lab, which allows policies to be experimentally tested before implementation.
6974	The Europe 2020 flagship initiatives to promote smart growth, in particular the digital agenda and innovation union, are among the strategies that prompted the setting up of the PSKK.
6975	The Europe 2020 Strategy set a series of targets that European Union Member States are committed to achieve and which might also provide inspiration for similar developments in Turkey.
6976	"The Europeana emerged from the conviction that free, democratic access to cultural heritage must be guaranteed for everyone so that the opportunities provided by digitalisation can be used for the further development of our society," said Jill Cousins.
6977	The European Agency for Safety and Health describes the week as: “Aimed at people in organisations, companies and workplaces of all sizes and sectors.
6978	The European Commission (EUSDR team – DG REGIO) provided some informal feed-back with the aim of improving the reports which will cover the period up to June 2015.
6979	The European Cosmetics Associatione Most cosmetics are developed and manufactured to have a long life.
6980	The European Institute for Gender Equality aims to promote gender equality, to fight discrimination based on sex and to raise awareness of EU citizens of gender issues.
6981	The European Marine Equipment Council is willing to perform such a study under the Sustainable Knowledge Platform.
6982	The European Parents’ Association has worked in the past decades to support parents in this task, to call the attention of policy makers and other stakeholder groups to the need to help parents in carrying out their duties.
6983	The European Police College logos and trade marks are exclusive property of the Agency.
6984	The European project group Planets has made a preservation-planning tool called PLATO, which helps define and test the content and the suitable solutions at hand.
6985	The European starch industry is an important employer, making vital contributions to local economies across the continent.
6986	The Europeans, who are trying to protect their right to regulate, are worried, notably about the legal functioning of the arbitration courts, of their relations with the national legal systems and the introduction of an appeal mechanism.
6987	The European transport system has shown vulnerability to external shocks, which have partially or, in some cases, totally shut down part of the transport system.
6988	The European Union believes that States, when taking counterterrorism measures, should not condone acts of indiscriminate violence against civilians nor use counter-terrorism as a pretext for political oppression.
6989	The European Union is big enough to do this.
6990	The European Union is looking forward to maintain and deepen this open, fruitful and substantial dialogue with Azerbaijan and assist in its strategic objective of political, economic and societal modernisation.
6991	The European Union must act decisively, collectively and most importantly, it must act now.
6992	The European union, with more than 500 million people, could have more than 60 or 70, or maybe 75 states.
6993	The europhiles and thier paymasters are building one EU, then one world and greece is expendable..
6994	The EU Sahel Strategy provides stability in the Sahel through state building, improved governance and regional coordination.
6995	The EU’s diplomatic network, which forms part of the infrastructure for this operational engagement, encompasses the entire world.
6996	The EU’s new trade and investment treaties include clauses on human rights, labour rights and sustainable development.
6997	The EU’s request will come up before the WTO’s dispute settlement body on 23 February.
6998	The EU’s role in promoting democracy, international cooperation and standing up to recent aggression in the East would surely also be weakened by Brexit.
6999	The EU steel industry has lost a fifth of its workforce since 2008 The problem with permanently retiring allowances has always been that it amounts to changing the EU’s greenhouse gas emission reduction target for 2020, a political no-go.
7000	The EU wants the Secretariat to analyse and make recommendations on all mandates launched before September 2000 by the GA, Security Council, ECOSOC, Trusteeship Council or Secretariat, even if the mandate has since been renewed.
7001	The EU would like to thank the Presidency of the Security Council for the report of the Security Council Mission on the implementation of UNSCR 1244.
7002	The evaluation of a Belgian short trips campaign in the framework of the MAX project showed that the main reason why people participated in the campaign, was to improve their health.
7003	The evaluation of SCAIView was based on the question for candidate genes of a disease.
7004	The event attracted over 150 entrepreneurs, representatives of business and investor community, governmental agencies and research and development organisations from all over Spain.
7005	The event introduces and gathers together local artists and guests from abroad, in whose work characteristic is societal action and engagement.
7006	The event is divided into 2 sections.
7007	The event is focused on sustaining transport mobility through innovation at general, strategic, and specific levels through 50 different sessions with more than 200 presentations.
7008	The event is titled "Nanotechnology and materials in action: Pilot lines and industrial alliances to reach the market" and will be held on June 12th 2015 from 10:30 to 14:00.
7009	The event was attended by the representatives of all project partners.
7010	The event was concluded with a networking lunch at the REC, where the participants had the opportunity to talk to each other, discuss cooperation opportunities and exchange knowledge.
7011	The event was part of The Scout Association's drive to promote the benefits of volunteering to adults.
7012	The event will be held in German.
7013	The event will gather top-rank contributors, coming from all over Europe, to consider findings and put them into perspective.
7014	The event will present and discuss current trends in the field of mobile & cloud computing.
7015	The EWP concept’s deployment is experimented by opening up the partnership for new members, thus qualifying it for an estimated level 8 on the generic maturity scale GML.
7016	The exact ministry connected with support finished this ufo receptionist family table keep away from 2009, collectively with its hotline available needed in support of exposure this kind sightings.
7017	The exact work to be carried out is still to be defined according to the project focus and specific interests of an organization willing to join the project.
7018	The example of “Süddeutsche Zeitung”: Research and a phenomenological interpretation The traditional concept of news journalism in Germany focused on the strict separation between “objective” and “subjective” text patterns.
7019	The exchanging of experiences and good practice is undertaken via regional networking events, cross-border study visits and the virtual communication platform.
7020	The exhibition came at a historic time for Slovakia.
7021	The Exhibition features graduate work from the Animation, Photography, Visual Communication Design, Visual Arts Practice, Film & Television Production and Modelmaking.
7022	The exhibition – opened by the President of the Parliament, Mr Jerzy Buzek – depicts the Battle in an impressive display of photos, film and archives – accompanied by a scale model of a Hawker Hurricane.
7023	The exhibitions take place in the Kulturni Dom in Gorizia and the Beneška Galerija in San Pietro al Natisone and, on the Slovenian side of the project, in the towns of Koper- Capodistria, Piran-Pirano and Nova Gorica.
7024	The exhibition was used for lively discussion and networking.
7025	The expectation of a non-linear function of a random variable and the function of the expectation are not the same.
7026	The experience acquired at an institution however is now all-defining, it is possible to continue by studying something else, even at an entirely different university.
7027	The experiments were conducted using tap water as well as salt water of different density in order to vary the settling velocity as the most essential parameter.
7028	The expertise and experience that has been brought together.
7029	The expertise in building intuitive visualizations and interaction possibilities on large screens and digital picture frames is complemented by expertise in integrating different social software tools.
7030	The facility used for this effort shall be in EURECOM labs.
7031	The Faculty Student Advice Service (Studienberatung der Fakultäten) explains how the studies are structured in your subject or programme, the examination regulations and helps you organise your own studies.
7032	The Fanfiction Downloader can easily save Fanfictions from various sites on your hard disk.
7033	The farmhouse was built in 1891, and after serving as a dairy during the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, it has been converted to a spiritual community centre more than 10 years ago.
7034	The farm produces grain and vegetables and raises cattle, hogs, geese and chicken.
7035	The feedback to the designers (see figure 4) allowed to modify the design during the implementation phase.
7036	The female has similar result as the largest male.
7037	The female which will registered mark sterling racially bothersome feedback pronounces this girl wasn truly the actual person receiving anniversary things throughout the billionaire.
7038	The Festival runs every year by the end of September, beginning of October and is one of the major events in International life of Georgia.
7039	The field is moving very quickly, with an increasing number of researchers.
7040	The figure above shows mitsubishi rvr engine manual frequency spectrum (a 3-D spectrogram) as the word LET is said mitsubishi rvr engine manual loud (ordinary human speech) at increasing distances from the recorder.
7041	The figures are updated online on the 15th of the current month.
7042	The figurine has movable limbs.
7043	The Filarmonica della Scala returns, with performances on September 16 in Milano and September 17 in Torino, conducted by the young Italian Andrea Battistoni.
7044	The files containing data and/or metadata must respect some naming conventions that have been created to facilitate the storage of a growing amount of source data and metadata.
7045	The final awards ceremony when the winners will be announced takes place during the Media and Learning conference on 25-26 November in Brussels.
7046	The final draft of the charter will be proposed in principle by the end of this year and will be sent for approval to HOTREC members.
7047	The final events in reproduction, swarming and spawning are co-ordinated by sex pheromones.
7048	The final pilot offers a full access to all the SAVASA functionalities through the SAVASA Management Application.
7049	The final product will be designed in a way that smart devices and sensors can be installed into the medical device itself.
7050	The final results will be announced on the Smart Europe website by February 2014.
7051	The final vote will take place on Thursday.
7052	The financial crisis has exposed several flaws in the institutional structures, incentive systems, regulations and supervisory structures of financial markets.
7053	The findings presented focus on reflexivity, responsibility and trust in relation to children’s perceptions of risk.
7054	The findings suggest that the participants are not very confident in their French-speaking ability.
7055	The findings to date suggest that a significant number of pupils, around 25%, are directly involved in cyberbullying.
7056	The firm is so busy telling how easy the product is to use that it forgets to actually provide the new P'DF Converter 8. Mark has 2 pairs of shoes.
7057	The first CCC was ready for implementation in the EU member states and Schengen Associated Countries on 15 June 2004.
7058	The first deadlines for applications are in 2013.
7059	The first ERANID call will be launched in September 2015.
7060	The first farmer explained how he dealt the impact on his farm management of designation of part of his farm for water storage.
7061	The first important book on the subject was The Theory of Games and Economic Behaviour, which von Neumann wrote in collaboration with the great mathematical economist, Oskar Morgenstern.
7062	The first Joint Danube Survey took place in 2001, and the second one in 2007.
7063	The first main challenge is to develop a new macro-economy for sustainable development.
7064	The first of the products is an adventure game situated in a museum environment and designed as a first person hidden objects game.
7065	The first one (Friday 13) it was focused on the theoretical side and it took place in a superb setting, the Archaeological Museum.
7066	The first portrait shows a 17th century, possibly French, family.
7067	The first "Sarajevo Winter" Festival was held from 21 December 1984 to 6 April 1985.
7068	The first step in fighting injustice is revealing it.
7069	The first step involves filling-out a questionnaire, sent to parents along with the invitation letter to the routine examination.
7070	The first step of the awareness raising campaign took place in December 2009, with a series of meetings in schools.
7071	The first step that will be taken in Israel towards introducing a smart grid will be a pilot scheme starting at the end of the year among 2,500 households in Binyamina.
7072	The first survey in the series targets experts in the field of public procurement.
7073	The First World War and Computer Games” – Martin Bayer For many countries, the First World War was a central event in history and is highly important for their respective culture of remembrance.
7074	The fiscal problem in the EU lies in finding the appropriate degree of revenues and expenses for all government levels: the national governments and the European government.
7075	The five euro and ten euro notes are not always treated kindly.
7076	The float “follows” the ground and samples all the water column, proving its good capability to manage very frequent grounding behavior.
7077	The focus here is on the digital reconstruction of 3D objects.
7078	The focus is on the roles and responsibilities of local governments as the driving force for innovation and investment in their communities.
7079	The focus of the project is to strengthen links between universities, research institutes and industry.
7080	The following are a few examples of Rockefeller influence over the past several decades.
7081	The following claims were tackled : 1) Part time and precariousness.
7082	The following figure shows the JSON data send to the server: The AR server implements a Restful web service that allows the application to register devices (nodes) on the platform SmartSantander.
7083	The following formats are currently supported: books with 24 to 828 pages in case of black and white printing and 24 to 500 pages in case of color printing.
7084	The following issues will be addressed: What are the potential earnings of virtual power plants, reserve capacity pools etc.
7085	The following link will connect you to a search engine to look for accommodation in several hotels in Barcelona.
7086	The following practices can assist this step: Step 5 – Cargo loaded and shipped to destination The cargo is eventually loaded on another ship which sails to Antwerp, Belgium.
7087	The following questions were addressed in great detail: • How appropriate is the current definition of the Postal USO today, considering the changing communication behaviour of the European citizens?
7088	The following three programs have been selected to provide you with some examples of existing language schools which are dedicated to provide language education for seniors all over the world.
7089	The following two hypotheses were tested: H1: Participants will score higher in the concurrent reading block compared to the sequential reading block due to a beneficial effect of multitasking.
7090	The follow-up process should be an integral part of the UN work, using existing mechanisms and follow-up processes.
7091	The forests in the EU belong to many different bioclimatic zones and have adapted to a variety of natural conditions.
7092	The form considered here emerges mostly from the entanglement of kinetic, cybernetic and robotic art.
7093	The former Community Programme, established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1467/1994, gave rise to 21 projects, with a total EU co-funding of around EUR 10 million.
7094	The former is believed to stand rather to the left of the political scale whilst the outgoing president lies more to the right.
7095	The former Prime Minister of Slovenia has been nominated by new European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to become his EU’s “Vice President for Energy Union”.
7096	The form-factor of a torch encourages visitors to use it as an exploratory tool and help to reduce the technical hurdles.
7097	The form submission is then saved to the database table.
7098	The Forum provides a platform for a debate on the achievements of the partnership and how civil society can further contribute to the success of the programme.
7099	The Forum will bring together high-level industrialists, policy makers, and key societal stakeholders across the globe for a cross-exchange of ideas on major macroeconomic trends and manufacturing innovation.
7100	The Foundation is now in the process of developing a new research project: ‘Nutrient Recovery and Recycling in European agriculture – a review of issues, opportunities, actions and policies’.
7101	The four fundamental freedoms – free movement of people, goods, capital and services – are not separable.
7102	The fourth newsletter of interactIVe is published.
7103	The Frankfurt school theorists were among the first neo-Marxian groups to examine the effects of mass culture and the rise of the consumer society on the working classes which were to be the instrument of revolution in the classical Marxian scenario.
7104	The friar fears that Romeo may have machinery s handbook 28th edition toolbox in sin with Rosaline.
7105	The full range of product groups covered by the HICP consumption basket is given by the Classification of Individual Consumption by Purpose (COICOP/HICP).
7106	The full White paper can be downloaded here.
7107	The function called "Accounts" offers you quick access to various popular social media applications with which Overwolf can be linked.
7108	The funding was designated especially for scientists involved in military-oriented R&D projects.
7109	The funding will provide the people at risk with food and medical care, shelter, clean water and sanitation.
7110	The fund is considered an important tool of recovery in the country, even though it should only act as an extra layer of funding and not as a complete post disaster support.
7111	The Fund is established under the law governing incorporation and operation of investment funds with majority state founding equity.
7112	The G8 becomes more like a moribund club whose utility is increasingly questioned (8).
7113	The GAMA model will be mapped to the LIDO model in order to get the DCA application profile.
7114	The general belief is pitman arm hypospadias cuckold tumbler control you are putting in and didnt stop to.
7115	The geographical position, the frequent occurrence of extreme climatological events and the socio-economic regime in Bangladesh, transforms effective Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) measures in an extremely challenging task.
7116	The German Berliner Zeitung points out that in the past weeks the German government has been showing that it is, indeed, determined to take a huge international responsibility: a diplomatic leadership and crisis management.
7117	The German public, always sensitive about privacy issues, was outraged about the massive scale of U.S. spying.
7118	The giving of clear guidance is particularly relevant in view of the ongoing process of modernisation of the EU antitrust rules, which increases the need for undertakings to self-assess their compliance with competition rules.
7119	The global inventory charts progress toward NQF goals, drawing on extensive research in the field of qualifications.
7120	The globalists admit, they engineered World War I, World War II, to get their League of Nations.
7121	The global syntheses of MORB and arc lavas by his outstanding students Emily Klein and Terry Plank put awesome simplicity into the understanding of these primary regions of melt production.
7122	“The GNSS market is huge and growing and Galileo and EGNOS can play a major role in building it further.
7123	The GNSS virtual library provides a single on-line access point to important files and documents related to EGNOS.
7124	The goal is for the adopted OPs to deliver and contribute to the Europe 2020 strategy.
7125	The goal is to achieve increased receptivity to signals of change and an enhanced understanding of how and where to access critical resources thereby improving the preparedness for action.
7126	The goal of the conference is to help strengthen civil society, and to involve it in the planning and implementation of the Eastern Partnership policy.
7127	The goal of the Mobility and Smart Cities international conference is… IoTaaS 2015: deadline extension!
7128	The goal “risk reduction” is identical to the goal “increase security.
7129	The good news: IAOPA has fought off EASA’s damaging Dangerous Goods proposals, which would have made it illegal to carry a quart of oil or five litres of fuel in your aircraft – this no longer applies to aircraft under 2 tonnes.
7130	The government are paying mere lip service to rights for the Roma and other minorities, adding to the masses of young people trying to leave Hungary.
7131	The government I shall lead adopt a firm desire to bring a revival to our country."
7132	The Government of Canada endowed FCM with CAD 550 million to establish GMF to support municipal initiatives across Canada that benefit the environment, local economies and quality of The programme has two main offerings.
7133	The governments now are going after people’s pensions.
7134	The Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) system used in other EASL CPGs was used and set against the somewhat different grading system used in the AASLD guidelines.
7135	The graduates who passed the diploma examination obtained — in addition to their School of Social Sciences diplomas — an undergraduate studies diploma issued by the Jagiellonian University.
7136	The Grandmother’s Plaid is a sort of rag photo album.
7137	The graphics I find alright, considering this is a fairly old game.
7138	The Great Famine that happened in Ireland 165 years ago was due to farmers’ loss of food sovereignty.
7139	The Greek issue is expected to be included in the European Council's conclusions, but the text is still being worked upon.
7140	The Green Digital Roadshows networking events will go on in 2013 to continue fostering partnerships between signatory cities, European Institutions and other relevant stakeholders.
7141	TheGreenOutfitters.com is a green wear clothing store designed for people who want to do their part to help the planet go green by wearing it, and do not want to settle for clothing that is harmful to the environment.
7142	The gross profit margin amounted to 34.8 percent of revenue, versus 36.9 percent in the previous year.
7143	The groundwork was laid in year one, but transcending the limited sensor capabilities of the first dock to incorporate significant diagnostics greatly extends the domain of applicability of the dock.
7144	The group covers expertise in economics, geography, sociology, business administration, innovation studies, environmental history, and energy studies.
7145	The group had the chance to exchange views with representatives from the energy company and one of the developers on the project.
7146	The Group is open to all industry organisations who have or who intend to have an involvement in the research, development and deployment of ICT based future energy systems.
7147	The group underlined that the situation is in complete contradiction with the European Commission's Paper on Consumer Policy Strategy 2002-2006, which calls, amongst other things, for enhanced consumer participation in standardisation.
7148	The growth in the use of Internet for health purposes is found in all seven countries participating in the survey.
7149	The guardian smiled but kerala sex fuck mobile videos year old woman.
7150	The guidelines therefore allow for state aid to CCS initiatives, provided that they contribute to environmental protection and address a gap in the market.
7151	The guy in front of the car doesn't look hurt at all.
7152	The guys who took over central banks, you might say.
7153	The HAARP is going.
7154	The harm reduction (HR) approach has been developing rapidly in Georgia due to its support by the international donors community (GFATM, relevant UN organisations, Open Society Institute, extensive EU-funded programmes, etc.) since 2002.
7155	The HCG diet protocol is based on Dr.
7156	The head office of the Administrative Court is located in Ljubljana.
7157	The head of that particular communist organization at the time said that the masses must never really be brought in to the real purpose of communism and the mechanisms of its structure.
7158	The Head of the EU’s Delegation to Ukraine, Ambassador José Manuel Pinto Teixeira, also took part in the signing ceremony.
7159	The heat and electricity delivered to housing and industry replaces fossil fuels used by conventional power plants.
7160	The hesitant opening of one of the last socialist countries is observed with great interest by European companies.
7161	The highest female percentages, all exceeding 70%, were observed in Estonia, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania.
7162	The highest recognition was, however, received when even McDonald's network decided to take the product on their distribution list.
7163	The holder of the studentship will be expected to contribute to other project activities.
7164	The home server will also provide space for data storage and a gateway to the Internet.
7165	The hospital has 300 beds and additional Hemodialysis service for in-hospital and outpatient service.
7166	The hotel has a rooftop pool and excellent fitness facilities.
7167	The HSM Zamecki is not liable for direct or indirect damages and reserves the right to get to work on changes or completions of the provided information without a previous announcement.
7168	The HTAL is organising in-service training and projects for history teachers in Riga and in the regions.
7169	The human capital is researchers and engineers and also their networks that both embed them in local economy and also connect them globally.
7170	“The humanitarian crisis that sparked the need for Mare Nostrum has not gone away.
7171	The human suffering caused by stress is immense and the financial costs are substantial.
7172	The H. Vuillard et Cie factory closes down.
7173	"The HYDMedia digital archiving system offers a professional solution separate from the HIS, and therefore also safeguards long-term archiving to the degree legally necessary.
7174	The IBM Zurich Research Laboratory has developed a tool called Intelligent Device Discovery (IDD) that collects information from all possible sources, computes an aggregate picture of assets, and categorizes their usage and vulnerabilities.
7175	The ICSE class 10 examinations are said to be one of the best examples of examinations fro can test the thorough knowledge of the astronomical image processing software.
7176	The idea to hold joint EUG and EGS meetings was first considered in 1995 and naturally opened the discussions for a possible coordination of the activities of the two organisations.
7177	The idea was to experience basic TA methods by the use of a didactical approach of hands-on problem-driven learning.
7178	The IETF Mission Statement is documented in RFC 3935.”
7179	The image shown right was contributed by Henrik Søgaard (Ohmatex) to illustrate the activities of WP3: Textile Intrinsic communication layer of which Henrik Søgaard is WP-leader.
7180	The image was taken in an initial phase of the Elemo project conducted by the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL).
7181	The imaging speed and quality of the digital X70 room has greatly improved our workflow.
7182	The immediate priority of these operations has been to deliver equipment to remove the debris, to dispatch search and rescue teams and to provide emergency health, water, field hospitals, tents, telecommunication and food supply.
7183	The impact of direct democracy should be inversly proportional to the size of community.
7184	The impact of neonicotinoids1 on bee losses were recently highlighted by an European Parliament note2 and confirmed by an European Food and Safety Authority (EFSA) review3.
7185	“The impact of Staccato’s achievement is significant for customers developing Certified Wireless USB products.
7186	The impact on the European border guard community would be significant because SAGRES will demonstrate a new dimension of EO exploitation by merging the received data with a large and diversified list of ancillary streams.
7187	The implementation of an inventory-harvesting capacity by using interoperability standards (OGC’s CSW cataloguing protocol) has made it possible to access the GEONetCab inventory and the GEO clearinghouse.
7188	The implementation of the Fair Food Programme (FFP) has been a milestone in the development of this paradigm.
7189	The implementation of this provision is the responsibility of the Prevention and Protection Service, with the participation of the Head of the involved activities.
7190	The importance of patient and carer involvement in improving the quality of healthcare services and research has been increasingly recognised in recent years.
7191	The incident has sparked outrage in south Florida, where police departments have come under criticism over treating suspects harshly.
7192	The INCO-Trust coordinator, Jim Clarke, chaired a session entitled "Privacy and citizenship".
7193	The increasing internationalisation of corporate R&D and innovation has implications for future economic growth and European Union's research and innovation.
7194	The indicator reports share a common format and they use — to the extent possible — established environmental indicators hosted by the EEA.
7195	• The indirect integration of Foresight results into the projects, programmes, strategies and policies of national authorities, regional organisations or companies.
7196	The individual resource providers (NGIs) fund and maintain the hardware in their own countries. top You need to join a Virtual Organisation (VO) to access the available resources.
7197	The indolence they lived in afforded leisure for mischief, and being all idle at once, and equal in their circumstances, they were easily provoked or induced to action.
7198	The inference of phylogenies with computational methods is widely used in medical and biological research and has many important applications, such as gene commonly prediction, drug discovery and conservation biology.
7199	The information and commentary does not and is not intended to, amount to advice to any person on a specific matter.
7200	The information available on this Web site is not promised or guaranteed to be accurate or complete, and such information may contain typographical errors, translation mistakes, or factual inaccuracies.
7201	The information is part of the decision making process of managing marine traffic to anchorage and from anchorage, or for transit inward, to port or outward to sea.
7202	The information published on this website (text and pictures, graphs, sound, animations, videos etc.) and its structure are subject to the copyright held by Mazda Motor Europe GmbH, and in some cases, to copyright held by third parties.
7203	The information shared proved of the wealth of experience of SWITCH-Asia projects in these fields.
7204	The information will be taken from monitoring outcomes (ENERBUILD), building assessments (rating systems), statistical data, and surveys.
7205	“The initiative was privileged by a strong participation of RTA’s employees hailing from various sectors who descended to the mobile clinic in the Head Office of the RTA at Umm Al Romool.
7206	The innovation clusters in Noord-Brabant are running four testing grounds for large-scale deployment of independent living solutions.
7207	The innovative use of renewable energies and the deployment of clean, energy-efficient vehicles is a further key area of our work.
7208	The INSPIRED-organised visit of Mr Kwaśniewski, Tadic and Meidani, former Presidents of Poland, Serbia and Albania respectively, in the spring of 2014, was crucial in achieving this.
7209	The installation of the new controlled ventilation system reduces electricity and heating costs by a third.
7210	The Institute of Healthcare Improvement (IHI) also set medicines reconciliation as one of its work streams in their ‘Saving Lives campaign’.
7211	The instruments are ideal for color measurement of samples with optical brightener such as paper, card and fabrics as they can perform "numerical UV control" which is a unique feature in a portable colour measurement instrument.
7212	The integrated approach involves 5 challenges: These challenges are not new and go back to earlier Green Papers (1995 The Citizens’ network) and White Papers (1992 and 2001 on Transport).
7213	The integrated common competency profile The competency profile developed by the project consortium will be the prequel product for the validation instrument for the flexible learner.
7214	The integrated feed reader provides predefined links.
7215	The intellectual work of the 2008 European media and communication doctoral summer school,” was edited by Nico Carpentier, Pille Pruulmann-Vengerfeldt, Kaarle Nordenstreng, Maren Hartmann, Peeter Vihalemm, Bart Cammaerts, Hannu Nieminen and Tobias Olsson.
7216	The intention of this doctoral consortium is to support and inspire Ph.
7217	The intent of these statements is to clearly identify that the exported PMA part can be accepted under the conditions as stipulated in the BASA.
7218	The Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) is comprised of more than 500 leading media and technology companies that are responsible for selling 86% of online advertising in the United States.
7219	The interactive computer based secondary prevention training programme "Step by Step", which is designed to facilitate early recognition and intervention for schools, is meanwhile applied in many schools in nearly all Austrian provinces.
7220	The intergroup aims to work upon the main issues affecting public services.
7221	The interim Economic Partnership Agreement provides duty and quota free access to the EU market for exports from Mauritius, Madagascar, Seychelles and Zimbabwe.
7222	The internal control structure of the ECB is based on a functional approach.
7223	The International Communications Consultancy Organisation (ICCO) is the voice of public relations consultancies around the world.
7224	The International convention for the control and management of ships' ballast water and sediments in 2004 tries to deal with this environmental problem, by regulating the discharge and charge of ballast water.
7225	The international dimension of consumer protection is achieved by the cooperation within the network between experts, universities, faculties and faculties'departments.
7226	The International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies in Somalia overcame hostility to any public discussion of sex and condom use by enlisting Somalian diaspora and using culturally sensitive approaches.
7227	The International Monetary Fund that gives out the MASSIVE loans enforces them into what they call chemical farming where they MUST buy all the chemicals to keep the soil going and grow the veggies.
7228	The International Student Card is used to obtain discounts for trains, buses and internal plane flights.
7229	The International Trade Committee approved the draft recommendations on 28 May, by 28 votes to 13 with no abstentions.
7230	The interview will not be looking at management experience per se, but any time that you have issued instructions, directions or orders for others to follow.
7231	The invitation shall be sent by mail, fax, e-mail, special courier or any other means of written communication.
7232	The Iolcos Legacy is to sail from the shipyard the day after tomorrow on her maiden voyage.
7233	The Iperbole Civic Network, first in Italy and second in Europe after Amsterdam, was born in 1995.
7234	The iPod Touch is essentially an iPhone minus the telephone functionality, and any generatлr functionality which requires a SIM Card - whilst the iPad can be described as a larger tablet version of the iPod Touch.
7235	The IP staff is constantly available for consultations (in person, via phone or email) offering assistance and guidance for everyone interested in cross-border co-operation.
7236	The IPv6 Forum Ready Logo Program Committee releases a new program: the IPv6 Education Certification Logo Program.
7237	Their aim is to enhance and consolidate supervisory expectations and ultimately to improve the sound implementation of internal governance arrangements.
7238	Their eagerness to endlessly discuss any biking related topic over a can of cold beer is only shadowed by their passion to design and assemble custom bikes.
7239	Their findings were outlined in a working document that assessed the current standing of Kosovo Police and the Kosovo Basic Prosecution Office responses to domestic violence.
7240	Their involvement to the ALIAS network will be ruled following the guidelines outlined in the ALIAS deployment and network enlargement strategy.
7241	Their job: to make their citizens happy, deciding how much land they devote to food and energy production and how much they leave as unspoilt nature.
7242	Their leader, Joschka Fischer, recently called for his party to "open its arms wide" to those disappointed in the SPD likewise the new party that emerged recently in the political arena, the Left Party.
7243	Their magazine for Christmas 1984 contained eight works of Solomon Raj.
7244	Their own personal historian was Professor Carroll Quigley.
7245	Their registrar will process the transfer of the domain name.
7246	Their services include Penetration Testing, Digital Forensics and IT Security Training.
7247	Their soldiers are typically volunteers.
7248	The ISA is well established and participates in numerous national and international research programs in cooperation with different partners and institutions.
7249	The issuance spread was fixed at mid-swap plus 6 basis points.
7250	The issue can be ordered from the Société des Amis de l'ENS, 45 rue d'Ulm, 75230 Paris Cedex 05, France or by E-mail: This email address is being protected from spambots.
7251	The ITI scheme can be efficient in other rural areas as it promotes the establishment of a framework for local actions, focusing simultaneously on nature conservation and ‘traditional’ economic activities.
7252	The IWM, in Rockefeller's own words had a globalist slant.
7253	The Jarl Hjalmarson Foundation’s aim is to promote development and European co-operation and integration, on the basis of freedom, democracy and market economy.
7254	The job paid about new wife he came cards from over 100. And so I reluctantly poor start on the station already knowing that place and maybe she of a bull if.
7255	The job profile involves in depth analyses of ETF countries’ policies and ensures availability of skills for regional development.
7256	The Joinup website has a "Contact" button, which invites you to send your comments to a specific functional mailbox.
7257	The journey will take approximately 45 minutes.
7258	The JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Divergent series fourth book.
7259	The JRC has also developed methodologies to automatically analyse high and very high resolution satellite images in order to quantify the building stock.
7260	The judge against whom the challenge is proposed may declare afterwards that he abstains himself.
7261	The Judge at first instance ordered him to reveal the source.
7262	The July 2011 edition of the European Vacancy Monitor is available on the website of DG Employment.
7263	The June issue of the CONET newsletter contains articles on the deployment of robot teams and on tethered helicopters, as well as the presentation of the EC-SAFEMOBIL project and the CONET workshop report.
7264	The key factor is the window element accompanied with a technical box taking in HVAC systems as well as interfaces for building services (ducting, piping) installed on the existing façade.
7265	The key issue appears to be whether not surpassing the 2.3% threshold constitutes a neutral condition or whether it favours certain enterprises or industries over others.
7266	The key issue here is cultural-heritage, own the Macedonian-name and one inherits the legacy by default.
7267	The key measure proposed by the Commission is a due diligence system imposing certain obligations on those operators who first place timber on the EU market.
7268	The keys they played were marked on the paper in the form of little holes – each hole representing one note.
7269	"The kid refused to listen," Chief Burton said.
7270	The kids there- most of them are rroma- are very interested in activities due to the fact that Lipovu is a very poor community and they have almost no opportunities to do anything.
7271	The kind of lies you would give to children.
7272	The Knowledge Media Institute have lead the Interactive Media strand of this successful pan-EU Network, providing leading technical innovations such as live webcasting and social community services to this large group.
7273	The KNW PL 100 as well as the expansion KNX PL 110+, which is currently being standardized, can be embedded into Smart Home systems by the EEBus middleware.
7274	The Kodak colour and greyscale guides have long been the guides for film photography.
7275	The Kommunale Entwicklungs-, Betriebs und Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH (KEBV) was the owner and founded specifically to develope the brownfield.
7276	The Kremlin hopes that Ukraine’s failure to reform and the West’s emerging Ukraine fatigue—combined with other pressing issues such as Iran—will make Western leaders accept Moscow’s interpretation of the accord.
7277	The Kurdish dimension of the press freedom issue manifests itself in the amount of Kurdish journalists charged and imprisoned for their work.
7278	The KYOCERA application KYOmulticode and PCL Barcode Flash 3.0 with their extended range of barcode symbols and characters are useful tools for companies operating on an international level or firms with a high throughput of goods.
7279	The Lab-Analyzer can be extended - similar to the OceanPack™ or AUMS - with further components like seawater pumps, plug valves, debubblers, sensors or a Top-Box™ to a be a complete measurement system.
7280	The Lab is open 7 days a week, it welcomes every kind of publics from young scholars to entrepreneurs, from families to independant artists and makers.
7281	The Labor party is demanding a sweeping criminal investigation.
7282	The Labour Party, weakened by the MP expenses scandal, was relegated to third place with only 15.3% of the vote, behind the anti-UKIP (United Kingdom Independence Party) with 17.4%, and the Conservative Party, which wins the elections (28.6%).
7283	The lack of joined-up policy has led to a situation where we subsidise food and systems that don’t promote agricultural diversity, but cause ill health, result in environmental impacts and massive economic burdens on tax payers.
7284	The LADIS contains data from the regular drug treatment services, and provides nationwide coverage.
7285	The Lamb says: simplicity, meekness, white fleece: smallness, innocence, purity, helplessness, submission to sacrifice.
7286	The land of hope and glory, they used to sing.
7287	The large amount of data used in OPAL increased the need for safe and convenient handling of this information.
7288	The largest part of the total energy use in the lifecycle of many IT products (for example lap-tops and screens) lies within the production phase.
7289	The last caller was talking about how the changes in the male and the female, how that happened, and I've been particularly interested in the females and I'm 23 and I always wondered why don't I have any hips.
7290	The last signatory is to be done this year, 2010, supposedly for the complete integration of the Americas.
7291	“The last thing I Nike Air Max 2015 remember was me screaming as I fell off my bike,” she says.
7292	The latest legislation on national and regional accounting dates back to 1995, hence the need to revise the text, bringing it in line with new requirements and methodological advances in statistical research.
7293	· The latest set of 88 SD indicators, dated October 2009, includes 18 key indicators reflecting policy priorities.
7294	The latest version wizardry 5 cheat codes expression web 2 keygen plugin is 5, and it will be saved in Vimball format (.
7295	The latter two components would enable connecting new 2,000 customers (additional 150,000 m2).
7296	“The launch of the European Year 2011 of Volunteering is a time to celebrate!
7297	The laws on transportation service are so-called rights-laws and the state's decision (rejection or such restrictions on the service) can be appealed to the County Court.
7298	The layer in the top of the list is also the layer on top of all the other layers.
7299	The leader of the group of European Conservatives and Reformists, Syed Kamall (UK), said that the summit was supposed to demonstrate the EU's strength and determination but instead it demonstrated the weakness of will.
7300	The leaders agreed to meet again early in the new year to try to bridge this gap.
7301	The least prevalent infection was with E. canis, with only two positive dogs (0.16%, 95% CI 0.03–0.6).
7302	The leftwing forces revealed their political programme in Rome on 11th February last agreed upon after long negotiations between the various parties in the coalition.
7303	The legal basis for the reports is laid down in the REACH Regulation, Article 117, and the Agency is obliged to submit these reports regularly – every five years for the operational part and every three years for the non-animal testing.
7304	The legislator is now considering a new draft law on the Lithuanian commercial arbitration.
7305	The letter continues to say that “due to the increased cost, Hapag-Lloyd is forced to implement a Low Sulfur Fuel Charge (LSF)”.
7306	The level of fair compensation should take full account of the degree of use of technological protection measures referred to in this Directive.
7307	The levels of integration are so high that it is already hard to avoid deep legal, economic and political impact on the two sides.
7308	The Liberal Democrat Party and the Democrat Party have relatively similar economic programmes; each of the two parties presents numerous social measures.
7309	The license associated with this product allows for free personal use only.
7310	The license declaration which was presented with the complaint does not influence the decision of the Panel.
7311	The limited resources within TRANSLOCATION did not allow the development of the required additional functionality.
7312	The little catch on this is that they can sue for profits they say they might make if the laws or what they deem barriers, were not in place.
7313	The LLRP Commander helps you configure and manage LLRP-compliant RFID readers.
7314	The longest time dogs have been man's best friend due to the love and loyalty that dogs bring their owners.
7315	The lowered centre of gravity also allows for a reduction in spring rates for greater ride comfort.
7316	The lower layer is an unstructured, gossip-based, P2P network allowing peers to efficiently gather in logical groups of nodes representing similar resources.
7317	The lowest levels…) are to be found in populations such as the Inuit (A: That’s up here in Canada.) and Siberian hunter-gatherers, who live on a diet which is incredibly high in saturated fat.
7318	The lowest NOAEL reported for developmental toxicity was 1.0 mg/kg b.w. per day from studies in rats exposed gestationally and neonatally.
7319	The LUX Prize is a tangible symbol of the European Parliament’s commitment to the European film industry and its creative endeavors.
7320	The magazine "Foreign Affairs" called him one of the world's most influential thinkers of global policy.
7321	The Magna Carta of 1215 provided the first legal rights in Britain and a historical basis for later civil rights.
7322	The MAH has the obligation to provide the requested data within the stated timeframes.
7323	The main aim of this blog, available in English and Italian, is to follow the freedom, security and justice area-related policies of the European Union by focusing mainly on issues linked with the European Charter of fundamental rights.
7324	The main capabilities of ABR are the possibilities to perform complex and custom individual tests and a very high flexibility in the performing of tests itself.
7325	The main discussion points and actions resulting from the sessions at the workshop will be made available online afterwards.
7326	The main fields of application of the CFD team at CERFACS are turbulent steady, unsteady flows for external and internal aerodynamic applications and reacting flows.
7327	The main focus will be on continuous dependent variables, yet we will also briefly cover nonlinear dependent variables such as binary outcomes.
7328	The main idea of the project is to spread small computers, called research devices, inside community networks, to be connected to nodes.
7329	The main losers however are employees and trade unions.
7330	The main medications used to treat acute exacerbations of MS have traditionally been anti-inflammatory steroids.
7331	The main objective and role of the Agency is to promote good energy management practices, advocate the concept of sustainability, provide information and guidance, and offer services tailored to specific local energy needs.
7332	The main objectives of the workshop were: Laurent MORA, the head of the Civil Engineering department of IUT (Institut Universitaire de Technologie) welcomed the IDEAS project partners on the first day of the technical workshop.
7333	The main reason for this change was to reflect the extended scope of the platform which now also addresses fixed networks aspects.
7334	The main technical feature of the generation capacity related to the operating reserve is that it is employable in very short time, in order for the network system to keep its frequency, voltage and stability parameters within acceptable ranges.
7335	The “major developing powers,” intrigued as they are by China’s extraordinary infrastructural push, both internally and across those New Silk Roads, wonder whether a solar system with two suns might not be a non-starter.
7336	The major economies of the near future are out in the open, they will include China, India, Turkey, Brazil.
7337	The majority of the implementation plans do not touch on the topic of validation of non-formal and informal learning at all.
7338	The management and operation of Instruct is delivered through Instruct Academic Services, a not-for-profit organisation.
7339	The management curriculum focuses on areas of human knowledge that concern the operation and control of business and nonprofit organizations.
7340	The management is always presented with up-to-date and complete reports with authorised on-line access.
7341	The management promised that it was still looking for buyers, with the support of the North-Rhine Westphalia Land (NRW) and of the city of Bochum.
7342	The man from Nagorny Karabakh is therefore starting his second mandate as head of Armenia.
7343	The manual is for those who want to help with the development process, including source code, software releasing, and other administrative work.
7344	The manufacturing process is suited to semi-skilled workers or small enterprises as well as larger companies, without great capital investment.
7345	The map section tells the visualiser where it can find the coordinates of all the walls.
7346	The maps of burnt areas are further used in conjunction with the EU-CORINE land cover (CLC) database to estimate the damage to forests and other land cover types.
7347	The Map viewers have also been configured as Web Map Service (WMS), a feature that allows WMS clients to request map layers from the European Soil Portal which can then be combined with layers from other WMS servers, located in other parts of the world.
7348	The Marie Skłodowska-Curie actions, that fund mobility and training for researchers, support participants from 80 different countries.
7349	The Marine Download this brief EFP Brief No. 60: Rural Ireland 2025 Ireland has set ambitious goals for the development of its rural regions.
7350	The mark-up for original brands would be capped at 3% if the procurement price is lower than the "median price" or the maximum price that government hospitals can procure a product.
7351	The Marrakesh Treaty will enter into force after its ratification by twenty WIPO Member States – so far, two have ratified it (India and El Salvador).
7352	The maturity on the GML scale is estimated is to be 7 since the scheme is working but not yet transferred to other regions.
7353	The MEDEA Awards is an annual competition that recognises and promotes media-enhanced learning, so I am interested to learn about new initiatives through this community and share media-enhanced resources that I come across with all of you.
7354	The media came up eventually with the description that Prince Charles was a ‘king without a purpose,’ a future king without a purpose.
7355	The medical device sector is highly innovative, particularly in Europe and has an estimated market value of around €95bn.
7356	The medical implantable device used for such a constriction is the so-called stent.
7357	The medium plays the role of a cultural cornucopia today – the mythical horn of plenty.
7358	The meeting also included a study tour to the Algae Centre, one of the three algae study facilities of the project, together with the India and Jordania algae sites.
7359	The meeting also led to discussions over the Arctic and notably the protection of the environment in this sensitive region.
7360	The meeting, attended..
7361	The meeting discussed the fourth Working Draft on requirements for contact centres.
7362	The meetings will be financed by a registration fee.
7363	The meeting was attended by representatives from LP UK; SD Denmark, SAP Sweden, SPO Austria; SPD Germany; PASOK Greece; MSZP Hungary; LP Ireland; PvdA the Netherlands; DNA Norway; Fatah Palestine and PSOE Spain.
7364	The meeting was mainly focused on two themes: how to combine security with the respect of fundamental rights, and the growing role of social media in urban violence outbreaks.
7365	The members discussed a first draft of a charter on Roma inclusion and committed to taking this work forward.
7366	The members of the Council are vice-ministers and directors of specialized administrations whose activities are related to SD.
7367	The menus are for the most part the same: fish, chicken, and salad.
7368	The message you’re getting is that you’re utterly helpless to defend, help, or save yourself.
7369	Themes to Remember: Human Achievement Woven through this narrative is a set of pervasive themes: This is a world tour of prehistory with profound links to who we are and how we live today.
7370	The methodology is characterized by "learning through research" and "experiential connections": Teens grapple with the history outside their own front door - a history whose effects often can be felt to this day.
7371	The method used allows integrating specificities of small mountainous watershed covered by forest.
7372	The micro-organisms remove the pollutants from wastewater.
7373	The Minister of Justice expanded the deadline and introduced some changes, but the number of candidates was limited.
7374	The Ministry of Environment, Forestry and Water Administration has become a more important actor with growing concerns over environmental issues, particularly in the context of European integration.
7375	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not responsible for any damages resulting from the use of this website.
7376	The minor change may be subject to further clarification, however, they are accepted once the Project Progress Report is approved and the ERDF reimbursed.
7377	The mission of the project is to alter to context and tone of the debate.
7378	The mission took place in the framework of the European project WATER CoRe, in which 14 bodies from 7 European regions take part.
7379	The model also calculates trends in emission factors up to 2020 on the basis of new technologies, government policies and logistical optimisation.
7380	The model can be used to simulate different combinations of vehicles, fuels, and biofuels to assess different biofuel implementation scenarios: Seven LD passenger car types (and fuel type options)..
7381	The model envisaged by IBEC is inspired by a creative, innovative new ecosystem based on interaction between research experts in different technologies (nano-bio-info-cogno) to generate new knowledge and engineering solutions in health technology.
7382	The model study how a duopoly of mono-product firms reacts to three alternative policies: a MQS policy, linear taxation of the two goods on the market and finally taxation of the low quality good.
7383	“The modern state seeks to exterminate any transcendental significance from legal killing,” said Kolář.
7384	The modulation of revenue support to the circumstances of individual farmers, a social cohesion objective, was still insufficient, because it was only optional for Member States (in 2001, only France and the United Kingdom operated such a system).
7385	The monetary analysis takes into account developments in a wide range of monetary indicators, including M3, its components and counterparts, notably credit, and various measures of excess liquidity.
7386	The most ‘difficult’ main assessments (those with an average score above 2.33) were rechecked only by the most experienced reviewers.
7387	The most expensive projects will not be needed and will therefore not be developed.
7388	The most important as I see it is that the European integration is not genuinely the number one priority.
7389	The most important of these elaborated under the leadership and/or with participation of eng.
7390	The most important task (which is more of a financial than of a technical nature) is to increase the capacity of the country-wide backbone.
7391	The most original amateur puffy nipples, abnormally large round areolas and nipples pictures collection.
7392	The most part of the products (98 % of the monthly production) is intended to export in more than 25 countries all over the world.
7393	“The most urgent issue is the specification of the priorities in the EU smart grid research and development in short and medium term“ highlighted the President of ETP SG.
7394	The Motorola interface is basically stock Android with just a few Moto additions on top, like Motorola Migrate, Assist, Connect, Help and Alert.
7395	The move, announced at the party's 36th congress, which closed on Sunday, has angered traditionalists.
7396	The move to OGL version 3.0 applies to new users of information, once the relevant website and publishing copyright notices have been updated.
7397	The movie has now grossed a robust $122 million in just 10 days of release.
7398	The MP3 is available for download.
7399	The "Multiannual Financial Framework" (MFF) provides a basis for the annual budgetary procedure.
7400	The municipal coallition agreement states that the current parking tarrifs will not decrease until 2014.
7401	The museum was founded in 2003 while the Organisation of the Museum was established in 2008.
7402	The music was comissioned from court composer Antonio Cesti (1623-1669) and the court musician and composer Johann Heinrich Schmelzer (ca. 1620 – 1680).
7403	Then a European jury, composed of energy experts, networks of local authorities, NGOs, journalists from all participating countries, plus recognised European organisations, decides on champions (quite like in the Cannes Film Festival!).
7404	Then, a part of CETAF discussion will be on stable identifiers.
7405	Then apply for one of the positions now available at the Open University of the Netherlands!
7406	The narrator, remember, is looking back on events that happened in the past, whereas the viewpoint character is a boy experiencing the events as they happen.
7407	The National Math Festival is organized by the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MSRI) and the Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) in cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution.
7408	"The nature of your research has led you to have quite a high profile in the media, and your work is often discussed on sites like The Register, but they don't seem to take you particularly seriously.
7409	Then click on the New Adjustment Layer icon at the top of the Mcafee security scan plus trial palette and choose a Levels adjustment layer from the mcafee security scan plus trial.
7410	The necessary skills and expertise for the institutional work will be supported by hands-on experience in the field of autonomous sensor networks and pervasive surveillance.
7411	The need for online storage and backup of data constantly increases.
7412	The need for this is underlined in the European Neighbourhood Policy Package which was published last March where recommendations were issued to partners.
7413	The needs for each temporary position and/or scientific equipment should be comprehensively substantiated.
7414	The need to further develop Maritime Spatial Planning is therefore also rightly stressed within the EU Baltic Sea Strategy.
7415	The net assets shall be transferred to one or more institutions that pursue similar aims.
7416	The network brings together thirteen core partners spread over ten European countries, with a renowned profile in the database, data and Web mining, and semantic technologies communities, and an ecosystem of collaborators worldwide.
7417	The networking efforts of COST Action BM0603 'Inflammation in Brain Disease (NEURINFNET)' contributed to the research on mechanisms underlying the pathology of this disease.
7418	The networking workshop will also aim to obtain feedback on the developed tools and approaches, as well as dissemination of the uptake of the projects' results and tools and the updates on policy engagement.
7419	The new building would accommodate some 500 employees formerly spread over six different sites.
7420	The new entity's objective is to raise the volume of investment and the number of companies doing industrial innovation.
7421	The new memory vocabulary psychology of GetName.
7422	The new method provides enterprise-level security with the assignment of a unique character key or PIN, up to 28-characters long, to every device – providing 128-bits of entropy.
7423	The new player contains many new features one of them is that music can be added to the slideshow.
7424	The new regulatory framework aims at ensuring that secondary markets are fair, transparent and safe and that investors’ interests are safeguarded when being sold investment products.
7425	The newsletter contains many IPv6-related stories, and can be viewed here.
7426	The new solution helped the bank meet its data challenges and enjoy faster performance for data acquisition, extraction, and analysis.
7427	The new Traffic Snake Game Network has been established in order to spread and support the good practice across Europe.
7428	The next acer travelmate 3200 driver would be to search balloono cheats codes for shopping cart plugins.
7429	The next day, I was hon- oured and humbled by the news that the EMA community had voted for me, despite not being present at the GA and being 38 weeks preg- nant.
7430	The next section explores the two knowledge related passions, positive and negative, admiring and subversive.
7431	The next six months will be tough.
7432	The next step forward is to elucidate how the components of a cell volume regulatory circuit work together and control the physicochemical conditions of the cell.
7433	The next step in the admission process is the submission of an essay that is intended to depict the suitability of the prospective student for the desired MBA.
7434	The next time your PC starts, avast! will perform a thorough sweep of your system before Windows starts.
7435	Then, four cities presented their best practices: Hannelore Mees (Antwerp University) presented in the Session Disaster reduction and emergencies, regional perspectives.
7436	Then he explained that there were contacts with Moscow to discuss the options for a restructuring of the 2.5 billion euros loan.
7437	Then I need to reflect.
7438	THEN it will be decision time.
7439	Then, of course, it’s also very important that you are knowledgeable about current events, and that you are aware what’s going on; that you’re listening, reading papers, and following what’s happening.
7440	Then of course we had the bank crashes followed by getting plundered by our governments to pay the banks for their cunningness in crashing the economy.
7441	Then of course when they mixed the music with the standard drumbeat and the heavy bass tempo and then of course out came the LSD – the “Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds” – which was distributed throughout every university in Europe by the garbage bag full.
7442	Then on the prtege prompt type Alliteration Definition of Alliteration Literary Term How do protege editor define Alliteration.
7443	The Northern Ireland Greens can be seen very much as a “best practice” for how they adopted the Green New Deal and how it paid dividends in their campaigns.
7444	“The notariat had already begun this evolution long before DG Competition launched its initiatives.
7445	The notice must be conspicuously included in any notice in an Executable version, related documentation or collateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the Covered Code.
7446	Then sign up to the EUSEW 2015 session on ‘Property valuation: Valuing the impact of energy- and resource-efficient buildings’.
7447	The NSSD Action Plan contains a large number of process indicators attached to certain NSSD measures and/or objectives.
7448	Then the BSE, remember the bovine problem they were going to have, the brain eating disease, the spongiform encephalitis they called it.
7449	Then the identification of products would be immediate and transfer rates for product change would be instantaneous.
7450	Then the training will focus on the problem of certifying IT products at an international level.
7451	Then this programme is a good chance for you to acquire new skills and knowledge in this field, find like-minded colleagues and enhance your professional growth.
7452	The number and nature of these priorities will vary from region to region.
7453	The number of haemocytes again falls sharply in the pupal phase.
7454	The number of official languages of the Union thus went from eleven in 2002 to twenty-three in total.
7455	Then we could address whether a real time “trading guide” would assist in reaching those goals, or change the market patterns altogether.
7456	Then we moved on to the short list.
7457	The objective is to cooperate and exchange knowledge and information of our public stakeholders running start-up and SME support programs to boost innovation potential in the V4 (coordinated through the V4 Innovation Task Force).
7458	The objective is to put into practice the single audit scheme with only one chain of audits from the final beneficiaries to the European Institutions."
7459	The objective of the visit was to learn by firsthand the situation of the Spanish Roma and identify good initiatives.
7460	The objectives of the CIFA are as follows : 1. To protect and defend the interests of Independent Financial Advisors at national and international level by creating a unique network of resources both in Switzerland and internationally.
7461	The observations were consistent with the presence of a high speed solar wind stream, although the observed polarity was opposite of the hole that was expected, suggesting the southern polar coronal hole is connected instead.
7462	The observatory specifications are listed below: Screenshot of the OM controlled by Ciclope Astro Software.
7463	The Ocean Science Section (OSS) of the IOC-UNESCO plays a leading role in creating the conditions for good science and building networks of scientific logistic facilities at global and regional scale.
7464	The oeuvre of Christophe Berdaguer & Marie Péjus is made up of many different procedures which engage the spectator in the direction of a perceptible and psychological experience of space.
7465	The office supports the clients in EU-related issues and provides early warnings on upcoming EU policy developments and funding.
7466	The official explanation that MEPs needed more time to consider the legislative proposal left a bitter taste.
7467	The official ones which you've been brought up to watch on your 6 o'clock news since you were a child.
7468	The official opening ceremony will take place this evening (from 18:00) at the Centre for Fine Arts (Bozar) in Brussels.
7469	The old passenger terminal was operating at near or maximum capacity, so it was necessary to construct a new one.
7470	The old religious organizations that used to stand up, many of them have been so disgraced themselves that they forgot their own teachings, which were really that, “Suffer the little children to come unto me.”
7471	The only consolation is that with evert such step we come closer to some sort of catharsis… Please log in using one of these methods to post your comment: Email (Address never made public) You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
7472	The only one I came up with that has a similiar method of query is this Boлk seems to work great.
7473	The only option seemed to be to flee the country.
7474	The only requirement is that your developed code is compatible with the telosb mote.
7475	The only thing is, today there is a massive, massive business in controlling the populations through marketing, and ideas, memes, themes and so on.
7476	"The onset of a pandemic can be very rapid, leaving little or no time to prepare.
7477	The Oops! problem is this.
7478	The opening session discussed how to measure the output of partnerships set up to advance regulatory science and leverage global biopharmaceutical development.
7479	The openSE framework proposes to apply the principles of Open Source communities in an Open Educational Framework within the subject area of computer science education.
7480	The Operation, code-named REPLICA, targeted the import of counterfeit..
7481	The operation was supported by hooligans (titushki) who mixed with the crowd of protestors and were beating them from the other side.
7482	The optional Transactional Profile could be used for registering sensors and inserting observations into the SOS.
7483	The Orange Order used to go through the towns in Ireland, I don't know if they still do, and the towns in Scotland as well with their Orange Day Parade.
7484	The organisation asserts that restricting access to the Court risks denying justice to victims of human rights violations.
7485	The organization of the Conference had taken advantage of the cooperation of the Fondazione Giorgio Cini – Istituto “Venezia e l’Oriente”.
7486	The organization of this venue was superb and the audience attendance could not have been better; the concert was packed to the last seat.
7487	Theories and program components are considered as typed objects, which can be constructed dynamically.
7488	The OSH authorities need to monitor compliance with more than 100 items of legislation.
7489	The other opposition leaders wouldn't touch the Kurdish separatists with a ten foot pole.
7490	The other way is to make our economies more dynamic and flexible, receptive to competition in Europe and from outside, by pressing ahead with painful economic reforms, to move the economy up the value chain.
7491	The outdoor unit has frost protection features designed to avoid freezing and ice build-up in severe winter conditions, so it’s guaranteed to perform even when the outside temperature is down to -25°C.
7492	The outer is the main mode of corrosion protection, realization of which is mandatory if the ends of pipe welds.
7493	The outgoing Prime Minister did however say that there was no problem between the two parties.
7494	The outputs of the workshops will be publicly available reports summarising the specific research opportunities and gaps identified.
7495	The overall aim of the technical toolkit is to enable organisations to identify appropriate energy improvements for apartment blocks, and provide associated guidance and information required to help decision-making about these improvements.
7496	The overall objectives of the law are the protection of human health and the environment from the harmful effects of some precursors.
7497	The overwhelming reason given for this is that of solidarity with EU partners to the south.
7498	The pact on free movement of people came into force 12 years ago.
7499	The page devoted to the participating institutions allows you equally to know which activities are proposed to the judiciary of your country.
7500	The painting bursts with tension.
7501	The Palestinian partners found through this Technical Assistance, the needed support to determine specific needs for future action and the needed guidance to put in place pertinent instruments for PV development.
7502	The palette of services needed to include commercial services, in addition to public services, which already were of good quality in the trial versions.
7503	The Panel decided that, although the Respondent was right not to register the domain name at issue, ruling that the decision was lawful would be contrary to the reasons why the procedure was laid down.
7504	The Panel notified a non standard communication to EURid and to the Complainant.
7505	The Panel will return to this point in part 3. The Panel therefore finds that the Complaint is admissible and has proceeded to consider the substantive issues.
7506	The paper will assess the capability of the representation in the time-scale domain to split the interference component and the useful signal thus allowing for a removal of most of the interfering power.
7507	The parental permission slip explained the study and discussed what adolescents would be expected to do if they were to participate.
7508	The participants get to know different methods to explore and visualize the network of a person on a poster such as ‘relationship circles’, ‘my network’ or ‘the family treasure map’.
7509	The participants talk directly to one another, rather than talking at the facilitator.
7510	The participants were informed about the goals and the progress of the trial site and received general information about the FINESCE project.
7511	The participating institutions from Serbia, United Kingdom, Russia, South Africa and USA, chosen for the diversity in their respective expertise and research approaches, are recognized world-wide as leaders in research and innovation.
7512	The participation fee is 30 euros per participant.
7513	The participation of civil society and relevant professionals in the development of these policies is also recommended.
7514	The parties have to work together to find a solution for the country as soon as possible.
7515	The partners will appoint one of them as Lead Partner, who will represent the administrative connection between the project and the programme, and will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the project.
7516	The partners with skills and expertise in the field of big data, data mining, process mining etc. are also welcome.
7517	The parts are made up from basic general aptitude questions and answers pdf (Cube, sphere, cylinder, etc), which are combined via addition, subtraction and other means.
7518	The party's new leader, Wojciech Olejniczak, maintained that his party would succeed in being a "constructive party on the benches of the opposition."
7519	The patient’s health care proxy is nominated with a signed authorisation certified by a notary.
7520	The pay-back period is only 5.7 years.
7521	The payouts too range from 99 to 110 per cent on different games.
7522	The Pentagon admitting, putting out big articles, about making a virtual you, in their virtual world at the Pentagon.
7523	The Pentagon will also give priority to the training of Israeli pilots, preparing them for nuclear attack with these fifth generation fighters.
7524	The people approaching them would, for example, comment on the identity or on posted images.
7525	“The PEPPOL initiative being driven by Government and supported by Amor is a great example of a coordinated use of digital technology to help grow the Scottish economy.
7526	The periodical organised contests and exhibitions of beautiful books, strived to unify Polish graphic terminology and presented professional literature.
7527	The Perl directory contains the code of the tokenizer.
7528	The personnel supply services sector, which includes the staffing industry, is projected to grow rapidly over the rest of the decade as the 6 000 expands.
7529	The perspective of Helsinki and Stockholm joining NATO in response to Russian threats to Tallinn and Riga may be actually a very viable insurance policy for the latter.
7530	The PES document contrasts with the European Commission EU2020 which falls short of proposing a true change towards a greener economy.
7531	The PE-Xc multilayer pipe is the best available on the market, while PERT pipes combine the quality and price requirements.
7532	The philosophy behind the project has been a shared interregional scope led by a regional authority with competence in competitiveness policies, the Basque Ministry of Economic Development and Competitiveness.
7533	The photos were selected basing on their testimonial power and photographic value.
7534	The Physicum was built by Astlanda Ehitus OÜ and the architectural part designed by Kadarik Tüür Arhitektid OÜ (architects Ott Kadarik, Mihkel Tüür and Villem Tomiste, interior decorator Kadri Tamme).
7535	The pilgrims were able to find out information about the sites they were visiting, as well as add their own comments and guides.
7536	The pilot is providing €4m in funding to cover all or part of the costs of post-grant open access publishing arising from projects funded under the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7).
7537	The Pirate Party International stressed its strong support for Julian Assange during the recent WikiLeaks controversy.
7538	The platform can be used in more context specific analysis provided that better information is provided, as either input or reference data, to the system; this would also allow a richer investigation of agricultural management strategies.
7539	The platform has been successfully adopted by most major Italian media companies and broadcasters providing hundreds of optimized mobile videos on mobile sites and client applications that count millions of page views per day.
7540	The point of the game is to beat up an evil Santa, who are trying to prevent the..
7541	The police initially responded by sending a few police officers to the Youth Hall in Pristina where the event was taking place.
7542	The policy action described above will make a significant contribution towards achieving these goals.
7543	The policy areas of Welfare, Public Health and Family, Innovation, Employment, Economy and Foreign Policy are working with one another and with external partners.
7544	The political and security vacuum is being exploited by actors of all sorts, including criminal groups.
7545	The Political Context of the Accession Process Even beyond the difficulties affecting a large number of specific chapters, the political environment both in Europe and in Turkey is becoming more challenging.
7546	The political party, that was only created a year ago by the billionaire of Russian origin, won 28.6% of the vote and 22 of the 70 seats Seimas (the Lithuanian Parliament) distributed by proportional election.
7547	The political will alone to support reform isn’t enough.
7548	The poor get the lotto and it’s the same idea.
7549	The population is tired of their leaders and the few friends living in luxury, while the rest of the country can barely put food on the table.
7550	The portal also integrates interfaces and workflow tools based on SHIWA technology to handle and orchestrate complex molecular simulation applications.
7551	The portion of respondents who state that they feel citizens of the EU reaches 84% (+17 on 2009), which is the highest figure from amongst all member states.
7552	The positive side of its policy is that the governments of Greece, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Italy are now actively fostering austerity programs and, for the future, they will abide by severe fiscal rules.
7553	The preformance data of that plant in Juelich are: The Tower includes a research plattform that serves for: FIMECC from Finland new member of Energy Hills Dr.
7554	The premier also called the issue not to be politicised in view of the upcoming on May 19th local elections and predicted that the introduction of bilingual signs will continue after the elections.
7555	The preparations for this programme include already having agreed on partnership with tertiary educational institutions in Amsterdam, Arnhem and Maastricht.
7556	The preponderance of evidence can always be weighed towards the guilty but without an admission nothing happens.
7557	The presence and absence of the object develops into another level, through language.
7558	The presentation by Professor Zhongzhi Luan, Beihang University, explains why management should be an essential attribute of Grid on account of the large-scale Grid environment and rapid extension in terms of both resources and networking.
7559	The presentations can be downloaded from the programme below (Right click on the PDF links and Save As…).
7560	The presentations from the event can be downloaded hereafter: Regulatory and Standardisation activities The Business Perspective - Part 1 The Business Perspective - Part 2 All photos can be downloaded here.
7561	The presenters of the summer school attempt to cover not only intergovernmental relations but also non-governmental activities such as civil society and high educational organizations in border areas.
7562	The president of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades has 39% of his Country occupied by Turkey, a member of the NATO alliance for the last 40 years, and the West does nothing about it; Why would he not look for any support he can get where ever he can get it?
7563	The President of the Republic, Janez Drnovsek will then appoint the political leader who will form the new government, that is not to occur before November.
7564	The President says he is opposed to any revision, for the time being, of the Constitution prohibiting him from standing in the next presidential election in 2008.
7565	The President wishes to ensure that the EU has the right analysis to be able to respond approp..
7566	The price of entitlements will be determined by whether there are surplus entitlements relative to eligible land, or vice versa.
7567	The primary beneficiaries of these are civil service and higher-education bodies.
7568	The primary efficacy event rates for ticagrelor were: 9.5% per year for low, 8.5% per year for intermediate, and 8.8% per year for high expression groups.
7569	The primary focus is on high-quality original unpublished research, case studies and implementation experiences.
7570	The primary ordinateurs are the actors designated by law to dispose of and/or approve the public funds expenditure.
7571	The PrimeLife project cooperates with international standardisation bodies such as the W3C, the ISO and the UN IGF on privacy-relevant standards.
7572	The Prince was in Georgia on a two day visit to officially open the new British Embassy premises in Krtsanisi in Tbilisi.
7573	The principle of consensual decision-making on all resource-related issues is long-standing and vital for the effective functioning of the UN.
7574	‘The prize gave me a fantastic boost in self-confidence and also visibility!
7575	The probability to be above Bpa was around 70% in the forecast with reduced Grey gurnard abundances compared to 50% in the standard for ecast.
7576	The problem is that without Ashton’s successor in the frame the rest of the package deal will be elusive.
7577	The Problems Enacted free trial of cialis To President Sang On Conferring Campaign 1940s Were Members In Sierra Leone Developing Oligodendrocytes.
7578	The problem with the otherwise pro-European speech of Borut Pahor was that it did not come from the prime minister and that Slovenia is a small country in severe economic troubles.
7579	The problem with trees is simply the long generation times.
7580	The procedure is cost effective for both patients and hospitals.
7581	The production was initiated by QIPC Coordination Action QUROPE several yers ago.
7582	The products have been published on the national level as well as on the European level, that interested stakeholder can get all information and products to use them.
7583	The professional you hire must come from the ideal school, one that is reputable for such career choices.
7584	The profile of Chemnitz University of Technology is based on interdisciplinarity as well as on intensive networking on the national and international level.
7585	The program is designed to identify problems in applied computer science and modern information systems analysis and rational decision-prediction methods.
7586	The programme and abstracts can be found here.
7587	The programme applies to standard chillers used for air conditioning and refrigeration.
7588	The programme has a total budget of €8.4m and will run until 2015.
7589	The Programme is co-financed by the Regional Employment’s Fund.
7590	The programme is introduced by a presenter or a special guest and afterwards there is room for discussion.
7591	The programme is supported by local aviation authorities and will feature speakers from international organisations involved with the development of new air traffic services.
7592	The programmes includes a series of lectures, workshops, and taught modules aimed at developing a personal portfolio of training.
7593	The programme was entirely fulfilled, yet the BEREC delegation was unable to meet with the three main Chinese telecom providers, due to the fact that they were under an anticorruption inspection by the Government.
7594	The programme will showcase results from projects funded at national and regional level as well as those funded by European Commission Research Programmes.
7595	The programme with links to slides and conference videos Since 2009, the ZBW and the North Rhine-Westphalian Library Service Centre (hbz) have organised the annual international conference “Semantic Web in Libraries”, SWIB for short.
7596	The project aims to do this through three key areas of action: City involvement in the project will be structured in three groups.
7597	The project also had the support of pharmaceutical distributors Tamro and KD Pharma and the cooperation of LIF, the Swedish pharmaceutical manufacturers’ association.
7598	The project also provides a set of macro-economic scenarios (i.e. high growth, business as usual and low growth) dealing with waste prevention, recycling and treatment.
7599	The project also seeks to develop a Euro-Mediterranean network for the promotion of gender equality.
7600	The project began in March 2010 and will conclude in March 2012.
7601	The project coordinators Teesside University hosted the meeting at the University’s main Campus in Middlesbrough in the UK.
7602	The project encouraged development of cooperation, creativeness and artistic self-expression among young people of the cross-border regions by organising 4 artistic camps with involvement of qualified teachers (choreographers, ethnographers etc.).
7603	The project explicitly calculated what processes are changed and what value is generated by the IoT ARM.
7604	The project frees up the inside of the urban block to create a ground-level garden visible from the street through the lobby.
7605	The project has 13 project partners from 6 countries (Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Slovenia, Switzerland).
7606	The project has brought together expert groups from several Member States.
7607	The project held regular user forum meetings, bringing together stakeholders with the purpose of discussing the uptake of GNSS technology.
7608	The project is evaluated pro bono by Blomeyer & Sanz as part of their CSR policy.
7609	The project is focused on the Tomnavoulin catchment and involves testing the utility of a decision support tools, Bayesian Belief Network (BBN).
7610	The project is important for Europe as the extraction of intelligence information from EO data and other sources provides support to EU decision makers.
7611	The project offers remote sensing based monitoring services for observing and managing the state of Natura 2000 sites and other precious habitats to reduce the loss of biodiversity.
7612	The project partners have the tools and the pilots to make this conversion.
7613	The project-portfolio is valid for the same time horizon as the concept.
7614	The project results in an embedded system based on Cirrus ARM EP9302 processor and Wavecom WISMO218 GSM module in an stand alone Linux in the box appliance with very low size and consumption.
7615	The projects main target groups are practising professionals, developers, civil servants, academicians and students.
7616	The project timeline, with key milestones, is shown below.
7617	The project UASS proposes to realize an autonomous robot system for the monitoring of power production and distribution of power plants andelectric substations.
7618	The project will also connect the best innovative ideas with companies and potential investors.
7619	The project will be inclusive of stakeholders including regulators, monitoring agencies and the aquaculture industry.
7620	The project will conclude this year and the outcomes will be published.
7621	The project will develop a system of training/coaching within the bodies of Operating Structure to ensure knowledge management and institutional stability of the structures.
7622	The project will initiate a discussion forum of relevant actors by organising meetings and thematic groups on the four selected White Paper goals.
7623	The project will use multisensory sampling devices within the active feeder channel and a remote-controlled raft and flying device to access and sample the crater and the erupted gases.
7624	The projet is not only expected to improve the living conditions of local inhabitans, but will also allow to reduce energy and water consumption and promote the development of means of public transportation.
7625	The proof will only come when we have a draft agreement made public.
7626	The proportions are the same, one minute per question.
7627	The proposal for a new European treaty put forward by the French president and the German chancellor has been criticized, notably by François Hollande, who rightly regards it as being inadequate and has stated that, if elected, he would renegotiate it.
7628	The proposal for bi-directional capacity or the request for exemption shall be based on the assessment of market demand, projections for demand and supply, and the benefits for security of supply.
7629	“ The proposal has evoked a mixed response in the lower house.
7630	The proposal should include the following topics and can be in a form of PDF or power point presentation.
7631	The proposed application promotes “ageing well” and “prevention” concepts, implementing innovative web based ICT solutions and providing services more adaptable to elderly needs and preferences leading to a better quality of elderly care.
7632	The proposed Pharmacological African Science Gateway will significantly contribute towards collaboration and strengthening both capacity and capability for drug development and Rational Use of Medicines in Africa.
7633	The proposed reforms will also give the EU a bigger influence on international standard setting in the field of ICT.
7634	The proposed regulations for the EU Cohesion Policy for the 2014–2020 period place greater emphasis on the challenge of climate change than in the past, in recognition of the importance of this issue for wider EU strategic development objectives.
7635	The protocol takes advantage of the shared nature of communications and aims at minimizing the total number of bits exchanged for the purpose of diagnosis, thus reducing the energy consumption entailed by the protocol execution.
7636	The provisions of this programme will now be progressively extended to Canada, paving the way for a full participation of Canada in the SAFA programme at the end of a transition period.
7637	The psychopathic type system.
7638	The purpose of this ESPON seminar is two-fold: The first day aims at stimulating a thorough discussion of recovery and resilience concerning the economic crisis on the basis of territorial trends and supporting evidence from ESPON projects.
7639	The PWT is acting as an integrated authoring, peer-review publishing and online collaborative platform which links the Scratchpads to the BDJ.
7640	• The Q-fever Programme funds research designed to help reduce the number of people falling ill from Coxiella Burnetti.
7641	The quest for drugs: New tools, old habit.
7642	The quest for premium sound quality means uncompromising attention to the last detail.
7643	The question begs a double-take: Canada?
7644	The question is: how do you get to a consistent system?
7645	The question is whether “Brussels” can afford a fair deal.
7646	The question is whether it dismisses or creatively utilizes and integrates that diversity.
7647	The questionnaire was prepared by a PhD student from Milan’s Polytechnic as part of her research work and is derived from the Technology Acceptance Model, further adding an experiential perspective to the traditional functional, yet rational evaluation.
7648	The question should rather read, “which contributions technological change and behavioural change have to make to achieve the target of -60% GHG reductions of transport”.
7649	The question today is how to make this trend continue; what needs to be done to ensure that trade is a factor of fair, inclusive and sustainable growth in the next decades.
7650	The RAI, Radiotelevisione Italiana is Italy’s public broadcast network.
7651	The range of information extends from planning the first steps on international markets through to optimisation of existing international business activities.
7652	The range of sound pressure level (SPL), between minimum and maximum intensity, that can be processed by the human hear is quite large (between 0.02 mPa to 60 Pa).
7653	“The rapid progress that we are making is based on our strong background and track record in traditional organic photovoltaics.”
7654	The rapporteur, other CHMP members and the Agency receive comments from members of the CHMP.
7655	The ratio between GDP per capita in EU15 and in EU12 decreases from 4.7 to Figure 4.3.
7656	The raw materials are delivered in bulk, crushed and homogenised into a mixture which is fed into a rotary kiln.
7657	The real turning point in the transition from the European age to the age of world politics was produced by the United States’ entry into the Great War.
7658	There are 12 pictures from the Legend of St.
7659	There are advances in different fields and when people network and share ideas, as a result you get a more synergistic perspective that is different from the prevailing sense that exists individually.
7660	There are also operations involving movement of only certain parts of the upper limbs, like for example hand with immobile shoulder and forearm.
7661	There are also some workshops on how to wob the Commission and the Council.
7662	There are also those who have today, or would like to have tomorrow, some power.
7663	There are, arranged in double columns, seventy to eighty subject entries per page, making something like forty or fifty thousand references and cross references.
7664	There are estimated to be approximately 1000 iso-polyphonic groups.
7665	There are four reasons for it and they are: dignity, effectiveness, efficiency, empowerment.
7666	There are lots of entrepreneurs and many… Accommodation provided by Studentenwerk was great!
7667	There are lots of ways to get financial resources for the expansion of your business, and the most common one is by the use of SBA loans.
7668	There are manifest capacities in companies, as well as in major advisory bodies, and institutions for knowledge, research and training.
7669	There are many alternative methods and natural medicines to treat them and they are safe.
7670	There are many answers to that question, most of them given by the dissidents themselves.
7671	There are many items that will do not get used every day that need to be kept somewhere safe for when they are needed.
7672	There are many manufacturers of women’s shoes, 100 Authentic Cheap Shoes Air Jordan 10 Lady Liberty, if you stay persistent on your search, you can find the exact size in casual shoes and settle for nothing less.
7673	There are many other places, sites and events to enjoy.
7674	There are many possibilities – depending of the company type and requirements concerning size.
7675	There are new and stricter air quality standards and regulations coming online, but for the most part today's ports and terminals do not need to be pushed into changing.
7676	There are no core modules therefore you can choose six modules from the entire range of modules that we offer.
7677	There are normally two or three co-chairs of any given working group; working groups are categorized into Areas.
7678	There are number of different ways to define a use case.
7679	There are opportunities for everyone, from writing for the University magazine to becoming a sabbatical officer.
7680	There are plans to coordinate Internet activities paralleling the seminars.
7681	There are plans to hold a further workshop in January 2013, with a follow up workshop in February 2013.
7682	There are plenty of publications devoted particularly to the noospheric role of natural reserves.
7683	There are regions which produce and use all needed energy from local RES.
7684	There are serious and well established distributors willing to work with serious and well established European companies."
7685	There are seven nationally accredited higher education institutions in Iceland, the University of Iceland being far the biggest and the only university offering a complete range of disciplines and the most substantial public R&D performer.
7686	There are several eco-labels but the most widely recognized is the EU Eco-label which is available for floor coverings and furniture.
7687	There are several important areas – like labelling requirements and better coordination of safety assessments – where TTIP could make things more efficient both for companies and for regulators.
7688	There are several potential water sources in the area (rainwater, groundwater, surface water, pipe water, grey and black waters …) which have to be efficiently managed and assigned to the most adequate use.
7689	There are some efforts, like OpenID to move towards simplifying identity management, but it is all very much in its infancy.
7690	There are therefore several key issues for the quality improvement of a European observatory of coastal ecosystems.
7691	There are three CORBA-standardized mechanisms that extend beyond the synchronous paradigm: one-way, DII deferred invocation, and the OMG Event service.
7692	There are three major alternatives to do this: District cooling can thus be produced in district heating plants using solid biomass as their main resource.
7693	There are two fundamental dates regarding announcements of the ECB on its intention to buy (Spanish) bonds: August 2011 and September 2012.
7694	There are various methods that can be applied to the baseline review.
7695	There are various organizations and events that help foreign students to settle into Estonian life and create a social network in the country.
7696	There are ways of compensating for this imbalance, but it is essential to use other forms of engagement as well.
7697	The reason for this being a Regulation has direct and immediate effect on all the citizens of the EU and is evenly applied across the 28 member states.
7698	The reason is well known.
7699	The reasons for this are not understood.
7700	There can be other physiological changes as well; e.g. inflammation of the tendon sheets located on the wrist, shoulder, and ankle (tenosynovitis) or the other connective tissues covering the tendon (paratendinitis).
7701	The recognition or certification of an institution that has been reviewed and meets specific measures of quality.
7702	The recommendations in the statement focus on strengthening traceability of horsemeat in the food chain across the European Union.
7703	There, Federica Mogherini will have to prove her credentials—and quickly.
7704	Therefore chose, Publish on the web/Publish to the Web from the Menu File.
7705	Therefore Ecoplan refrains from working with customers who are not serious about ethics and the environment.
7706	Therefore every provider’s instance that has been transformed according to the harvesting schema, is also transformed to an RDF file.
7707	Therefore expectations for the government under President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita - elected into office in summer 2013 - are high to lead the country’s recovery, to strengthen state institutions and to build long-term peace.
7708	Therefore, homosexuality is one of them and it is a very old use on some societies (old Greece and Roman Empire for instance).
7709	Therefore, it depends on what your own intentions really are.
7710	Therefore, it will be our pleasure not only to provide a perspective of the current Max Weber Fellows' contributions to the Social Sciences and Humanities, but also to invite back to Villa La Fonte a number of former Fellows as speakers and discussants.
7711	Therefore musical education can change people’s social behaviour and should be brought into the schools, if possible not as an optional subject… I believe that sharing is the best guarantee of peace and accepting each other.
7712	Therefore, our main concern was that McAfee’s competitors might have suffered from a lack of interoperability with Intel chips.
7713	Therefore Russia is capable of change - and this change will come from within.
7714	Therefore, the framework is to be further discussed.
7715	Therefore the list is not a recommendation.
7716	Therefore the Ministry of the Environment and Spatial Planning is preparing the basis for necessary changes and introduction of new controls for conversion of waste from landfills, as a priority in the recovery procedures.
7717	Therefore, the potential markets for them are countries available in smaller distance (accessible by car), so these are the most active areas of the chambers.
7718	Therefore the Secret Church was founded, consisting of small groups of activists and secretly ordained priests.
7719	Therefore the workshop’s first day focused on the practical implementation of data registries, data creation and data exchange processes between the relevant actors.
7720	Therefore they are grouped into Soil Mapping Units (SMU) to form soil associations and to illustrate the functioning of pedological systems within the landscapes) 1974: soil information was compiled and harmonised over Europe at 1:1,000,000 scale by Prof.
7721	Therefore, they are liable to ignore the facilities for autonomous learning provided by intuitive user interfaces in order to familiarise users with the operation of new software.
7722	Therefore, they paid less attention to the video screen, and may have missed important uncertainty reducing visual information.
7723	Therefore validation does not mean that we check whether the WF is correct or not.
7724	Therefore, we would like to encourage the Main Committees to review their agendas and working methods on a continuous basis.
7725	The regime has also used chemical weapons against its own people, albeit so far only on a relatively small scale.
7726	The Regional Cooperation Council (RCC) officially took over the responsibility over SEEIC activities in November 2011.
7727	The Regional programme provides €50 million to support projects in three priority areas.
7728	The region has high levels of urbanization (78% for LAC and 86% for Brazil) and has three megacities in the top 25 megacities worldwide (Sao Paulo, Buenos Aires, and Rio de Janeiro).
7729	The region would decompress, and actual progress can be made.
7730	The registrants can decide if they submit the guidance on the safe use of the substance and the chemical safety report, jointly or separately.
7731	The registration to the workshop is available at this link.
7732	The regulation and practices concerning the way through which the self-resignation and the parties’ disqualification of a judge may be effectuated are among the strongest mechanisms to enhance and enforce the external independence of the judges.
7733	There has been an ongoing war of words over the quantity and quality of the human food supply.
7734	There has been considerable multidisciplinary research into the origin of colour categories and how colour categories in thought and language relate.
7735	There has been only slight positive change over the past decade.
7736	There has been some debate recently about TILLING, a new plant-breeding method used by Bioplant, a company in Ebsdorf, to create an amylose… more “It works just like traditional apple breeding, but it’s quicker.”
7737	…There has to be a meaningful difference that would convince somebody that you are there for them.”
7738	There have been calls from policy-makers for precise cost-benefit analyses, but it may be argued that this is inappropriate.
7739	There have been numerous successes in ECHA's life span from pre-registration to the first registration deadline, the Classification and Labelling Inventory, evaluation decisions and Annex XIV proposals.
7740	There have been whole articles on the subject, that’s why Merkel is so unpopular in Greece.
7741	There hot desi dudh sex stories so many she just caught a he is very athletic experts to.
7742	The reinvigoration of relations between Greece, Cyprus and Russia and the EU’s inability to reconcile differences between northern Member States and the Union’s two problem children, serve to strengthen Russia’s foothold in the Eastern Mediterranean.
7743	There is a certain a new resolution to reason to go buy.
7744	There is a common expectation that providing assistance to the victims is the obligation of the state.
7745	There is a Deliverable by SMHI at M12 for the HARMONIE mini physics ensemble (and report).
7746	“There is a great opportunity here for learning, to inform our own decision making, and to make our northern practices more sustainable.”
7747	There is a Howto for OSX here, do a search for »edit host file + yourOS« to find out for other Systems.
7748	There is a lot to learn from people and place here. 5 out of 5 found this review helpful You think you can write a better review?
7749	There is also a confidential counselling service and a student advice centre.
7750	There is a matching bulletin board display worksheet for you to print out of these 25 sentence slides.
7751	There is an article that I was going to read earlier and I didn’t bother because it’s terrifically horrible, but it’s also kind of passé in this day and age.
7752	There is an easy fix of the problem – lend the 10 billion or so euros against the Cypriot gas reserves.
7753	There is an emerging wave of piracy incidents and the Italian navy is engaged in daily search and rescue operations for undocumented migrants mainly departing from Libya.
7754	There is an online discussion forum to continue the conversation with other practitioners between live sessions.
7755	There is an unavoidable trade-off between these choices.
7756	There is a reaction between these targets atoms and a reactive gas as O2 or N2 introduced in vacuum chamber.
7757	There is a scrutiny reserve which is not statutory.
7758	There is a threat of further deterioration of the area, since a vicious circle has commenced.
7759	There is a vast potential in harnessing the demand-side in innovation policy development to support European industry.
7760	There is further clear evidence that these processes act at different scales, and that their magnitudes of impact often depend on the prevailing environmental conditions.
7761	There is going to be a lot of healthy low carbon competition in the next couple of decades and Europe must be ready.
7762	There is good correlation between known structural geology and the magnetic anomalies, and now that the longer wavelength signatures have been corrected, deeper interpretations are possible.
7763	There is, however, complementary research to be performed on combustor technologies and introduction of new engine core configurations to reduce NOX emissions and further reduce CO2 to achieve the SRA 2020 objectives.
7764	“There is low-hanging fruit out there, but unfortunately no one is picking it”, said Mario Djuragic, director of Republika Srpska’s representation in Brussels.
7765	There is no anonymous ftp data download enabled.
7766	There is no known pathogenicity in broilers.
7767	There is no one in politics today that hasn’t been vetted years before you ever hear of them on any party whatsoever.
7768	There is no provision for removal or installation expenses.
7769	There is no real stability without a true community of values.
7770	There is no scope for spontaneity.
7771	There is no single body that has the power and the autonomy to conduct this fight.
7772	There is no systematic cooperation on a strategic level, and there is little cooperation on the ground.
7773	There is nothing really wrong about this.
7774	"There is nothing special in the way we prepare for the match.
7775	There is no way out of this mess while we serve the interests of international finance.
7776	There is one university located in Monaco, specializing in business education.
7777	There is only one more similar installation in Europe operating in Erding, Germany.
7778	There is still a window of opportunity before the next general elections in 2014.
7779	There is the macro-economic question of pensions and fiscal redistribution; and a practical matter of who pays for the care of older citizens.
7780	The relation between the number of species and the number of individuals in a random sample of an animal population.
7781	The relevant provisions on the management system of aerodrome operators may be found in the management requirements contained in Subpart D of Annex III of Regulation (EU) No 139/ 2014 (Part ADR.
7782	The remarkable part of this new consensus is that it shows that Germany’s fear of inflation-inducing money-printing has vanished in the face of the euro Crisis.
7783	“There needs to be a high degree of freedom for change for scenario based analysis to make sense.”
7784	The renovation of the dwellings themselves have to be restarted as not all tenants were convinced about the project’s plan.
7785	The report also puts forward possible measures for addressing these risks through coordinated policy and supervisory actions.
7786	The report also underlines the need for maintenance of the basic principle of gender equality in sectors such as accession to work in correctional institutions, putting an end to stereotypes, and educational measures for inmates.
7787	The report concludes that responding to climate change involves making choices about risks in a changing world.
7788	The reporting periods cover on a regular basis a time span of six months counting from the start date of the project specified in the approved Application Form.
7789	The report investigates the design and implementation of entry-level agri-environment schemes within the EU-27 Rural Development Programmes (RDPs) for 2007-13.
7790	The report raises social and technological trends and drivers for future learning and looks at the specificities of ICT for learning.
7791	The report recognises the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the three European Supervisory Authorities in contributing to restoring confidence in the financial sector and promoting the Single Rulebook.
7792	The reports break all of this down to exactly how much light sin hitting areas on the floor, the walls, the work surfaces, etc.
7793	The reports differ significantly from each other; not only due to their shifting interest areas, but also in the ways problems are being addressed.
7794	The report will be launched during an official event on 27 June in Brussels (download invitation here).
7795	The report will replace the 'Core Principles for Systemically Important Payment Systems' (Core Principles) issued by the CPSS in 2001.
7796	There, precisely regarding fiscal policy, it is said that indeed the authorities had achieved their goal for 2011 to reduce the budget deficit but on a cash basis - a trick the Bulgarian government also used before the EU two years ago.
7797	The repressed thoughts imposed by fear, which includes, in the case of primitive societies, the avoidance of any link with the totem, visual or optical, represses the desire for the totem.
7798	The requested connection is created and you can find it under the Connection list in the workspace.
7799	The requests for the creation of a new group are analyzed by the ECLAP coordinator and board members.
7800	" There really is boarded up but the Saturday evenings only The as those who worked our existence from where or whatever mainstream media Queen Daft Punk For more information call Natural History 4400 Forbes.
7801	There’s a lot of hidden allegories in Genesis for instance, to give you the realization – they’re giving you the ending; they’re giving you it as the beginning but it’s actually being reversed.
7802	There's an excellent book (and a shorter paper) called Infringement Nation that details how things you do every single day are infringing and leave every single person liable for billions in damages each year (http://papers.
7803	There’s a part where it’s talking about how, they’re explaining, he is explaining their point of view, that the perfect world is the world in the way they see it, you know.
7804	There's a wall, you know like almost immediately kind of a little bit past the highway, then past that there's a bigger wall.
7805	The researchers are working hard to analyse the data collected while exploring the good practices in..
7806	The research fellowships are granted with the aim of leading to the successful completion of a doctoral dissertation, monograph or article-based, to be defended in public.
7807	The research focuses on the question as to how the integration of young people into the work of civil society organizations can be improved.
7808	The research focus of the Thermal Systems group is on thermal systems, for which it has been shown that significant energy savings can be reached by using model based predictive control (MPC) strategies.
7809	The research, initially based on internal expertise and literature reviews, was complemented with further desk research, expert interviews, expert workshops and company visits.
7810	The research interests of Maarten Verkerk include: feminism, responsibility processes in industrial organizations, change management, ethics of technology, ethics of management and organization, and innovation in health care.
7811	The research involves in nuclear reactions and Fuel cells.
7812	The Research, now in its 5th year, has been focused on the following objectives: The results of the 2013 research will be discussed with the major players in the Mobile Payments market (Telco, Banking, Service & Technology Provider, etc.
7813	The research project aims to survey modern engineering uses of the notion of malfunction and develop these into a systematic account.
7814	There should be no parts of the Internet where laws do not apply.
7815	There’s just one road leading here, so they don’t have many opportunities to make trouble.
7816	There’s lots of links to it as well as to what’s been happening about this.
7817	There’s no comeback on them at all.
7818	There’s no one to warn them that this is fake, this is a con, that, really, we’re just slaves at the bottom.
7819	There's not a common set of facts that we can all agree on as a starting point for discussing public policy.
7820	The Respondent applied for the trademark on December 23, 2005 and applied for the domain name bundesliga.eu the same day.
7821	The Respondent claims in its Response that the first assessment of whether the Complainant’s application satisfies the Regulation’s requirements must be undertaken via the normal validation procedure.
7822	The Respondent did not respond to the Complaint.
7823	The Respondent's pattern of behaviour is indicative of bad faith.
7824	The respondents were 89 potential users and 72 potential developers, and the provided data were analyzed both quantitatively and qualitatively.
7825	The Respondent was not authorized to proceed by the Complainant and nor was he authorised to use the Complainant’s trade marks.
7826	There's something wrong with you.
7827	´ ´There´s still a lot to play for in the pot.
7828	The restrictions could also apply to a specific location.
7829	The resulted simulator is temporally and functionally equivalent.
7830	The resulting Treaty of Westphalia established power-sharing institutions in the Holy Roman Empire which prevented Germans from devouring each other, and external powers from interfering.
7831	The result is a detailed overview of your current situation.
7832	The result is not surprising bearing in mind that in Bulgaria justice rarely prevails.
7833	The results come from a survey commissioned by InMobi.
7834	The results confirmed some of the assumptions we held based on previous fieldwork, but we also gained some new insights.
7835	The results for the modified decay rate as a function of the distance between the excited atom and the dielectric medium show the influence of absorption, scattering and thermal-radiation processes.
7836	The results of the consultation process were presented at the Open Days in Brussels, at the European week of regions and cities in early October 2011.
7837	The results of the questionnaire show that SMEs and research institutes intend to use new developments in their businesses.
7838	The results of the study show a great support for the environmental protection, provided it ensures egalitarian access to marine areas.
7839	The results of the survey constitute a good basis for the Monitoring Committee in determining future themes for applied research projects.
7840	The results of this session will be a collection of the presented material and a consolidated list (possibly in the form of a mind map) of research challenges towards dynamically adaptive Future Internet applications.
7841	The results of this study show that direct-seeding mulch-based cropping systems give rise to a more abundant food web in the soil, which is more mature and diverse than with tillage systems.
7842	The result will be an Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) fitting in the European standards.
7843	The revamped brochure places particular emphasis on the unique nature of the initiative and the importance it is gaining not only within local administrations but also in European policies and among non-EU countries.
7844	The reversibility of the reforms consists of fast increase of the state property in the area of finance and resources (oil, gas).
7845	The reviewed book approaches to fill this gap and be the first comprehensive “outline of the history of film posters in Poland.”
7846	The revision of the EU ETS Directive, which would leave more room for the Commission to intervene in the timing of auctions, also induces greater uncertainty for industry.
7847	There was an active discussion throughout the event and the participants gave a positive feedback on the tools developed and their application to the Baltic Sea.
7848	There was no consultation with the affected community and no feasible alternatives to eviction had been explored.
7849	There was planned to present new technologies applied at the Mechanical Department staying in line with goals of the FP7 and PPP FoF.
7850	There was soon no cash at all circulating within the Argentine economy.
7851	There were calls from the west to suspend Myanmar’s ASEAN membership.
7852	There were disputes like that all over the country.
7853	There were excellent presentations supported by case studies and examples.
7854	There were kept only several synagogues, the town hall, a former morgue and above all, there has been preserved the Old Jewish Cemetery, which is world-unique.
7855	There will also be optional visits organised to an air quality monitoring site of the IMPROVE LIFE project, or to an ambient air quality monitoring site (in Palau Reial).
7856	There will be a new emphasis on inclusion in the Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion portfolio, and a renewed focus with the Digital Agenda portfolio.
7857	There will be the opportunity to obtain the PhD degree at the University of Leipzig.
7858	There would be mayhem if they just went out and did it.
7859	There would not be, among the workers, the same need as among the governors for fanatical devotion to the State, and there would not be, therefore, on the part of the government the same jealousy of the private affections.
7860	The richest crowd started gathering here in 1971 and since then every winter here comes the very elite of the political and economic powers.
7861	The right side of the framework (Figure 1) incorporates those activities associated with awareness and the understanding of risks, and the recognition, characterisation and assessment of risks.
7862	The rigorous control of morphology of both metallic species and support allows the design of new advanced material architectures, leading hopefully to the significant improvement of catalytic performances.
7863	The rise in these mental illnesses is coupled with a decrease in empathy and an increase in narcissism in young people, indicating that their ability to work with others — as is necessary in a society — has been muted."
7864	The risk assessment conducted by EFSA on these substances will support risk managers in reconsidering these MRLs in order to protect human health.
7865	The risk assessment of GM animals proposed in the draft guidance follows a comparative approach similar to that required by EFSA for the risk assessment of GM plants.
7866	The risks, benefits are explained, and a forum to talk about Statins.
7867	Thermal Magnetic Achievemets thermal component of this breaker design works identically to a standard thermal breaker.
7868	The road to Union, hitherto pursued in vain by governments, not even able to draw up a plan, has been re-opened.
7869	The role has become available due to a restructure within the organisation.
7870	The role of cities and local administrations is critical in this regard.
7871	The role will be to assist the Sales and Marketing Manager in all areas of Sales and Marketing.
7872	The role will involve some local travel.
7873	The Romex comes from the circuit to the light first, then on to the switch.
7874	The roofs were refurbished and double-glazing and new doors were installed.
7875	The roun… New copyright rules for Europe?
7876	The routes are organized into 4 displacement basins: All of Bas-Rhin communes are not serviced by Réseau 67 routes but most of the time, they benefit from a school route service.
7877	The route will offer 1-3 day packages for different age groups regarding to their special needs.
7878	The rule books, as I say, are in all holy books.
7879	The Salamanca Statement was developed 15 years ago.
7880	The same can be said of countries which have subsequently joined without first polling their citizens – the Union has been imposed from the top down.
7881	The same family lineages at the top of all of the structure and they prosper and do very well through all of this; but they have a culture of death and destruction – and yet we’re taught to look upon them as being our benefactors.
7882	The same phenomenon applies to public equity against private equity as there is a tendency to treat the latter differently; c) lack of commonly recognised entities.
7883	The same service will be available for the return to the hotel.
7884	The sample form of the Veterinary Health Certificate for Live Animals has been exchanged for a new version.
7885	The sanctions against the federal government, announced by the 14 EU partners on 31 January 2000 and imposed on 4 February as it became clear that an understanding between Wolfgang Schüssel (ÖVP) and right-wing populist Haider’s FPÖ was taking shape.
7886	The Sarajevo Winter Festival confirmed that it plays an important role for the arts and that it successfully attracts a broad variety of audiences and the media - not only from Bosnia and Herzegovina but from all over Europe and the world.
7887	The scheme below gives an overview of the EDM model.
7888	The school in the village only had 14 students and 2 teachers left and the church in the middle of Weiwerd hadn’t had a service in months.
7889	The School offers a range of support to students with difficulties affecting their emotional well-being.
7890	“The school was totally unfit to properly accommodate students and its state was only worsening, we just had to do something” said Massimo a mission member who participated in the event.
7891	The Scientific Programme incorporates all the key constituents of Future Communication Networks including the themes Radio Access and Spectrum, Converged and Optical Networks, Future Internet Technologies, Satellite Communications and Internet of Things.
7892	The scientist is investigating and analyzing Lukowski’s neurophysiological processes, molecular structures, personality models, hidden layers of his consciousness, and even his dreams.
7893	The scientists used these results to estimate the outcrossing rates for the cultivation situation in various model regions with the help of a simulation program.
7894	The scope of the painting calls our attention to the key event in the love story of salvation history – the Incarnation.
7895	The Scottish National Party (SNP) has lost around 50,000 votes in four years but did however gain one seat in comparison with the last election (six MP's) and this in spite of the reduction from 72 to 59 constituencies in Scotland.
7896	The screenings were mostly held outdoors in improvised movie theatres from July 31 to Aug. 7. A picturesque theatre was set up in Kaljaja, the medieval fortress which provides a panoramic view of the entire city of Prizren.
7897	The SDD B2B Scheme requires the debtor bank, (the bank of the payer), to ensure that the collection is authorised by checking the collection against mandate information.
7898	"The S&D Group will do everything it can to fight the populists who seek to demonise refugees and pressure our governments who refuse to act out of political cowardice."
7899	The SD indicators will show the output of the implementation process.
7900	These achievements should not hide the fact that we still have a lot to do.
7901	These actions are categorized in three different types of EU involvement to 2050, i.e. “effort sharing”, “harmonization”, and “level playing field”.
7902	These activities also help to inform the EU where funds and actions are most needed.
7903	These activities range from sports, shopping, summer days on the beach, Christmas dinners and knitting clubs, increasing social contacts in a concrete and simple manner.
7904	These activities were followed by a press conference, held at the European Parliament.
7905	These advanced and innovative spectrometers, covering wavelengths from the UV to the near IR, have led to important new scientific findings.
7906	The sea-grasses of the world.
7907	These are all allegories and it's all in the Old Testament too.
7908	These are all calculated while maintaining the required level of system reliability and respecting operating constraints.
7909	These are located at the major intersections, where high quality and high service public transit and car accesibility are both present.
7910	These are the guys at the top who plan wars.
7911	These are the maniacs, the psychopaths who naturally are in control, because I’ve gone through talks on this psychopathy before.
7912	These are the nations which have to be incorporated in a United Africa.
7913	These are the two Divisions and their Business Areas at a glance: Within the Business Area Chocolate, Cocoa & Coffee is the Business Unit Chocolate Moulding which is located in Bergneustadt close to Cologne.
7914	These are the very concrete advantages – to be a citizen of the EU.
7915	These bee colonies constantly migrate, swarming and building one hive after another, leaving behind all the bacterial problems related to an immature state, which are naturally cleaned by the honeycomb moth.
7916	These bounds enable one to determine when to..
7917	These can also only harvest data for a limited time-space window, resulting in the problem of insufficient sampling resolution, spectral aliasing and consequently erroneous information.
7918	These components will be focused on an innovative platform enabling different management distribution strategies and catering for effective cooperative management by multiple management systems.
7919	These computing resources are used to further develop and support School research.
7920	The second day will consist of two workshop sessions.
7921	The second EV event Bristol has coming up aims at businesses.
7922	The second half of this workshop will focus on elaborating policy recommendations in an interactive discourse with the workshop participants.
7923	The second input requires linking the value of entitlements to farms in different farm sizes.
7924	The second language, a satisfactory knowledge of English, French, or German.
7925	The second overarching concern regarding TTIP is a lot more controversial, this regards the Investor State Dispute Settlements (ISDS).
7926	The second part of the article analyses the legal principles of administrative legal regulation while assuring the rights of shareholders.
7927	The second phase was confined in essence to a stand-off between Israel and the Palestinians.
7928	The second process is the new democratisation of the relations between the EU and its citizens.
7929	The second question you have to consider is: Do you really want to sell this business?
7930	The second reasons is that French professional culinary schools are not open to the Muslim community, as they use a lot of products that are prohibited in the Islamic tradition.”
7931	The second reason why benign neglect would be a mistake is that there are several issues which could prevent this healthy economic relationship from developing further.
7932	The second year includes the modules Issues and Methods in Human Rights and Continuity and Controversy in Sociology which develop research techniques and continues on from your first year module.
7933	These contain material which matches the structure of the self-assessment tools, so you can choose a content module for an EI competence that you wish to explore.
7934	These cookies are not used to gather personal information.
7935	These countries will need clear and realistic deadlines and close monitoring by the European Commission with help available to them if they are not on track, Municipal Waste Europe said in a letter to environment commissioner Janez Potočnik.
7936	These courses are designed to focus on one particular aspect of your game in most cases, so for instance you may take one course on putting and another on the drive.
7937	The Secretariat underlined that main efforts of the Contracting Parties are still focused to the transposition of EU directives into national legislation, while the Social Action Plans were neither updated, nor followed-up.
7938	The secret is to train our brain to this type of exam: you will be faster, you will increase your score, and last but not least, you will be able to manage stress that is a very important factor to manage."
7939	The section entitled Norms and Standards below has been reviewed as well as amplified by adding information on the product groups for which the Afghan National Standards Authority (ANSA) has issued national standards.
7940	The section has produced national board members as well as actives in the national and international committees.
7941	The security and privacy architecture aims to protect webinos users and systems from many threats, including those of malicious software, unauthorised data collection, violations of privacy and loss of personal data.
7942	These data will not be transferred to third parties.
7943	These decisions can be appealed to the Administrative Court (Upravni sud).
7944	These differences are growing with each new enlargement of the Union and they have become particularly marked following the last two.
7945	These elements – whether objects, signs, messages, or whatever – are subjected to a variety of displacements and transformations that divert, invert, or even invalidate their own functionalities.
7946	These EU funds have helped us to make this project a reality and to establish that wind farms are the energy providers of tomorrow”.
7947	These Executive Orders are amongst the most totalitarian type of orders ever issued in history – worse than any passed in World War II, in any country; worse than the Soviet Union had; worse than ancient despots and tyrants like Nero had in ancient Rome.
7948	These findings indicate that the reservoir for this pathogen may include a wide range of animal species.
7949	These five years will more resemble an in-house stowing of a space station’s various pieces of equipment than a cavalry charge.
7950	These flexible tools use information from different sources of the chain steps in pork production and help to detect weaknesses in corporate health and quality management.
7951	These functions are worthy of protection because of their socio-economic as well as environmental importance.
7952	These glasses are not yet in the final version, but if you want to find themselves in virtual reality will allow you phone and Google Cardboard for a few dollars.
7953	These guys will go to any means, any lengths to get this through, and if it means terrorizing the public into it, with their very lives, fear of their lives, they will do so.
7954	These have been shown to provide substantial selectivity and potency for several mycobacterial species, including M. tuberculosis, and to retain activity against strains that are resistant to commonly used medicines.
7955	These hypotheses are tested using a novel dataset and using a selection-model that takes into account the partial visibility of the data.
7956	These images probably represent the only filmed document of this event, which, on the contrary, is widely narrated by the newspapers.
7957	These include a transient episodic memory, the automization of action sequences, the involvement of emotions in decision-making and problem solving with novel problem.
7958	These initial scenarios lay the foundation for the evidence-based user scenarios.
7959	These investments are very often unevenly distributed across regions.
7960	These issues were also discussed at a separate meeting with the Speaker of the Polish Parliament.
7961	These items, serving as an extended list of greening measures for farmers, reflects the diverse nature of European agriculture and allowing farmers to make choices more flexibly, based on their own farm situation – says COPA-COGECA.
7962	‘These last years, we see an increase in the number of tornadoes being reported in Europe.’
7963	These lights are designed to assistance larger growth.
7964	These limits are sometimes at such a low level, that even laboratory analysis could not quantify them and thus they correspond to a practical ban.
7965	These may also travel via airports in west and east Africa.
7966	These may be extramurally with the higher education sector, the private sector, and Research and Technology organisations, or intra-murally with Non-Departmental Public Bodies and Public Sector Research Establishments.
7967	These may include conditions with regard to your nationality, residence, degree and its time of award.
7968	These may include outpatient services, diagnostic tests, the provision of medicines and certain inpatient and day case treatments mostly elective surgery.
7969	These methods are currently not available.
7970	The seminar focused on 'The Genetics of Political Behaviour'.
7971	The Seminar language will be English.
7972	The seminars follow a unique format which gathers judges and prosecutors and CEPOL senior police officers for 4-days-long trainings delivered by highly qualified international experts.
7973	These needs could be based on research or teaching objectives as well as individual learning outcomes: the toolbox can be tailored to a variety of personal uses.
7974	These new networked and electronic media are already proving to have a major influence on quality of life.
7975	These panels are engineered to meet most stringent wind codes around the country and reviewed by Florida as well as International Building Code.
7976	These people should be strung up for the lies they are perpetuating in the UK.
7977	These policy leverages, together with partnership building with logistics and transport operators, are the necessary ingredients to creating a tailored solution for more efficient urban freight transport management.
7978	These projects have explore the concept of fully automated vehicles, ranging from private vehicles, to buses, Heavy Goods Vehicles (HGV) to specific vehicles (i.e. on private sites such as university campuses, car parks, or hospitals).
7979	The sequel was introduced in 2003 and its release was accompanied by great anticipation of the audience as well as critics.
7980	The Serbs have indeed been severely affected by the economic crisis: low GDP growth (0.5% forecast in 2012), high unemployment (24% of the active population) and a high percentage of the population living below the poverty level.
7981	These regulations formalised many of CFIUS’ informal practices, codifying and intending to clarify such practices while further defining concepts used (such as that of "critical infrastructure").
7982	These representatives of parents closely cooperate with the school, bridge the gap between parents and the school.
7983	These results highlight some important behavioural implications of extreme climatic events.
7984	The serial narrative is unique in that it enables the relation of a series of historic simultaneous events, in a way closer to the true complex nature of historical reality than the ordinary linear narrative.
7985	The series of presentations addressed the Nazi art confiscation apparatus and resources for provenance research.
7986	“The serious deterioration of living conditions in the camp, coupled with the repeated message that Tor de’ Cenci would be closed anyway, has rendered the consultation flawed.
7987	These risks are particularly pronounced in the absence of a strong institutional framework.
7988	The SERPENTE project is focussed on this issue and while it has found that there are variable aspects in buildings across Europe, it has also found that there are many aspects where common approaches will work.
7989	These rules are based on levels of training, codes of professional conducts and competence mutually recognised by all the members associations of town planners.
7990	The service is part of the CItySDK’s Smart Participation pilot.
7991	These services are designed to incorporate feedback and lessons learned based on knowledge gained by responding to incidents, vulnerabilities, and attacks.
7992	These services concern the buildings as well as the water supply facilities of the SWDE (Walloon Water Cie) covering the whole Province of Liège.
7993	These simulations form a computational bottleneck, especially in performing full three-dimensional or transient modelling.
7994	These simulations often rely on Finite Element Methods (FEM) and the solution of large linear systems which, in turn, end up in multiple calls of the costly Sparse Matrix-Vector Multiplication (SpMV) kernel.
7995	The session concluded with a roundtable discussion between the session's speakers plus Ad Emmen, EDGI; Morris Riedel, EMI; Alexander Papaspyrou, IGE.
7996	The session will look into (1) the eco- the EMISPHER project mission.
7997	These standards are part of an executive order that President Obama proposed in February.
7998	These standards being imbedded in the overall modular structure of the EPB-standards support the innovation of heating systems as part of the future intelligent (smart) energy infrastructure.
7999	These studies feed back to the research community as measurement methods for the future generations of solar cells.
8000	These studies using MRI have allowed researchers to understand that all patients that had showed lesions in the cortical grey matter also showed a more severe course of the disease.
8001	These surveys will be open until mid-May.
8002	These systems should be inherently scalable hybrid devices, they should communicate via quantum interfaces, allow coherent control of quantum states and facilitate high-fidelity readout.
8003	These technologies are also at the core of Suschem activities and its technology working groups (Reaction & Process Design (RPD), Materials technology, Industrial Biotechnology (IB)).
8004	These terms apply to end users who contribute content to Europeana (usually as part of Community Collection projects, such as Europeana 1914-1918).
8005	These things are not openly discussed.
8006	These three populations comprise a “living laboratory” providing a unique possibility to test the hygiene hypothesis in the development of immune-mediated diseases.
8007	These tools enable the user to conduct comparative analyses of policies over space and time.
8008	These tools must be used and made stronger.
8009	These training sessions are open to any interested participants and are free of charge.
8010	The settlement agreement stems from a class action filed in 2005 by the Authors Guild and the Association of American Publishers against Google.
8011	These TVs also use our 100Hz Clear Motion Index technology to improve the fluidity of moving images.
8012	These two research fields were formulated in the Water Science Alliance White Paper.
8013	These values are all the more dramatic when compared to the levels of oxygen at shallow depths just outside the eddies, which can be up to 100 times higher than those within.
8014	These values will depend on the particular Federated Cloud site.
8015	These varying conditions lead to a diversity of habitats and species.
8016	These versions correct some minor bugs in the loading and saving of pages, the MailPosts feature, and documentation.
8017	These websites are easily accessible and provide mis-information and misuse of the scientific evidence.
8018	These were collected in an Action Plan for the 2015-2016 period.
8019	These were often opposed by the judges who responded that the use of such systems would violate the principle of independence.
8020	These were the questions raised by the scientists and researchers from various European Universities and by politicians who participated at the today's hearing in the European Parliament on Creativity and Innovations.
8021	These were the subjects of our present analysis.
8022	These will be presented as part of the workshop debate.
8023	These wishes, once found, may then be respected.
8024	The SGSS has a staff of 43 (29 employees and 14 external collaborators).
8025	The Shadow Hand Lite has 13 DOF and the size and shape is otherwise the same as a normal male human hand, down to finger lengths and tip positions.
8026	The share with low-level or no qualifications is forecast to remain at around 22% in 2025.
8027	The shark is dead and the dead shark is a killer, a bringer of death, but instead of encountering this twofold death directly in the work, what we in fact see is an object for which death has come and gone.
8028	The short haul interface allows the direct connection of low cost short haul transmission systems and standard ATM/IP devices resulting in more flexible provisioning, more economic spares inventory and lower cost networks.
8029	The signs were usually pictured as what they referred to, which is why celestial maps often seem maps with many animals and people on it.
8030	The simplest and safest way towards that goal is the adoption, by national standards of the basic principles proposed in existing high-level research projects (European and international).
8031	The single cell photosynthesis measurements technique will be implemented.
8032	The Site and any New Europe newspaper subscriptions achieved through the site are operated by Brussels News Agency SPRL registered in Belgium 11. Changes to Terms and Conditions These terms and conditions were published on 26 August 2006.
8033	The Sitemap provides full details of all of the information and facts provided about the fascinating subject of Egyptian Gods and the Pharaoh Tutankhamun.
8034	The site, to be completed in the next five to ten years, already features a technology park and environmentally-friendly housing development.
8035	The situation is well illustrated by the example of closing down 106 unions of state-owned companies in 1982 in a reform which brought in their place 103 unions, different only in name.
8036	The situation of the systems' users, on the other hand, is quite special too: They are certainly interested in tools that facilitate their legal research, but at the same time they want to avoid any increase in their standard of competence.
8037	The sit-ups must be done in the form explained and illustrated in the Personal Fitness merit badge pamphlet.
8038	The six Board members are working on a website and a membership marketing programme, and is applying to join International AOPA.
8039	The six-pack also created a macroeconomic imbalance procedure to prevent and correct wider macroeconomic imbalances including loss of competitiveness within the EU.
8040	The size of the energy efficiency loans to be provided to the final beneficiaries could range between €40,000 up to €5 million and be higher in exceptional cases.
8041	"The Slovenian vote clearly in favour of the EU and NATO is a major message, precisely because of the world's present political situation" declared the German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder.
8042	The small plates coming out of the kitchen are the biggest indicator of this, described as redefined eastern european bar food and pickled classics.
8043	The Smarter States of America, from a talk he gave on July the 9th, 2010.
8044	The SNP is working hard on recovery with an Economic Recovery Plan in place to protect Scottish jobs.
8045	The SOC 3 seal program will be terminated and the SOC 3 seal will no longer be available.”
8046	The so called sustainability of the Greek debt is the foundation of all previous efforts of the EU and the IMF to rescue Greece from default, therefore the eurozone.
8047	The Social Democrat Party for its part (LSDP) has allied itself with its partner in government, the Social Liberal Party (SL), party of Seimas president, Arturas Paulauskas - neither party excludes a merger in the near future.
8048	The social price has been somewhat high : many Americans work more for less, especially lower-skilled workers, as a result of a much lower minimum wage.
8049	The Social Psychology of Material Possessions – to have is to be, New York: Dolan, Paul, Tessa Peasgood and Matthew White 2008.
8050	The software is open source and published at the JoinUp page for STORK, so anyone can inspect what the infrastructure does.
8051	The software simulation consumes around 200 Mb of RAM memory in processes that can last more than 30 seconds. 10 users may try to access simultaneously to run the software.
8052	The software tool is designed to be a data archive if desired, and so can be used early in development and updated throughout the product lifecycle.
8053	The solar system was ordered by the local utilities „Elektrizitätswerke Wels“, installed by “MEA Solar GmbH” and planned and commissioned by Ritter XL Solar GmbH.
8054	The source code and an installation guide can be found here.
8055	The sources that have been used to compile this document are market oriented and include examples from the European Intermodal Association and from SPC’s.
8056	The space-eco symposium wishes to cover as many aspects of the Economy of Space as possible from research topics to market development, through business financing, market analysis, risks coverage and so on.
8057	The Spanish Constitutional Court?
8058	The Spanish government has a debt-to-GDP ratio of almost 90%.
8059	The special characteristic of Intergraf's standard is that besides defining the scope for calculation, it also clearly describes when to use average data and when to use product-specific data in a product calculation.
8060	The sponsorship deadline is Monday, February 22nd for your organization to gain unparalleled exposure in front of the the most influential leaders in healthcare.
8061	The SRT-15 research project will run for 30 months, starting Oct. 1st, 2010.
8062	The stalemate on negotiating the Working Time Directive demonstrates the challenges of making progress.
8063	The Stanford Center for Health Policy states the following on its own website:” And I’ll put the link up tonight at CuttingThroughTheMatrix.
8064	The "star shaped space ship" was one sketch idea of the artist Gyula Havancsák for Polaris.
8065	The stars might be aligning..
8066	The state coffers have received BGN 1.109bn.
8067	The state has been after this power for an awful long time.
8068	The statement makes the important clarification that "the success of the programme continues to depend on mobilising adequate financing from private sector involvement (PSI) and the official sector."
8069	The statement will be made available on the website.
8070	The station started broadcasting on the 17th October 1994 on the 1st and 2nd national channels.
8071	The statistical data are drawn from IMF, World Bank, other international databases and rankings or results of other research projects.
8072	The steel lockers, steel storage cabinets and cupboards, filing cabinets, office cabinets, pedestals, workshop furniture – are all created to allow perfect furnishing of industry and warehouse interiors, schools and offices.
8073	The Steering Committee is composed of the representatives of the participating countries and Euroregions.
8074	The “sticking point is the execution clause regarding fundamental rights”, he told the international trade committee of the EU parliament.
8075	The strategic framework summarizing the steps to be taken in the context of UBTYS 2011-2016 consists of three vertical axes and six horizontal axes designed to complement integrity (see figure).
8076	The strategy does not yet seem to be translated into specific legislation or regulations, though.
8077	The Strategy sets priorities in the fields of demand and supply reduction.
8078	The street sign was fixed three days after Almila reported the problem.
8079	The strong southern aromas that are released when burning the wood, truly bring the south of France to your garden or outdoor kitchen!
8080	The students were given a visual representation of the existing routes and the routes that were already completed.
8081	The studios history proves that impossible is nothing.
8082	The study also covers the financial and safety requirements of this form of power generation, which have been further tightened in the wake of the recent nuclear disaster in Japan.
8083	The Study generated serious interest at both regional and EU levels.
8084	The study, headed by Professor Karien Stronks, aims to discover the interaction between environment and genes – a field called epigenetics.
8085	The study investigated the potential impact of the 2009 influenza A(H1N1) pandemic on attitudes towards vaccination among people living in metropolitan France.
8086	The study of transient sources is one of the key science projects of LOFAR.
8087	The study showed a fairly high level of alienation.
8088	The study was presented at the workshop "Insights from Green Infrastructure projects in the EU", held in Brussels on 17 January 2012.
8089	The successful applicant will possess ability to manage and propose solutions related to the continuous review and improvement of software development processes to maximise the quality of products and services.
8090	The sui generis character of the EU is a strength in global multilateralism, and should not be abandoned lightly.
8091	The SUMP activities coordinated by Rupprecht Consult responded to Action 1 of the European Commission’s Action Plan on Urban Mobility to accelerate the large scale take up of Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans by local and regional authorities in Europe.
8092	The support instruments to be implemented should be tailored to the specific needs of the innovation targeted and to some basic features of the innovation.
8093	The surveillance report covers the 12-month period up to the end of October 2013.
8094	The survey provides for each evaluated landscape element, besides the average preference values, the seasonal change of its preference value between spring and autumn.
8095	The Swiss Greens has always been very interested to be part in this ongoing process.
8096	"The symptoms will get worse if I use my voice or walk when the brain signals are misfiring," says Jennings.
8097	The syntax of wc command leevl shown below.
8098	The SYRIZA-led government has emphasised repeatedly that this is the first time that the Greek administration has been able to write its own programme of economic reforms since requiring a bailout in 2010.
8099	The systematic collection of field data on animal-based measures and subsequent storage in well-defined databases can in the future assist in better assessing their potential and their limitations as animal welfare outcome indicators.
8100	The system is a complex modular system solved treated as a client-server applications working in a Windows environment.
8101	The system is gone now.
8102	The system operates by prompting a series of questions and asking the user to indicate the correct answer by moving a pointer using the mouse.
8103	The system supports decision-making by health authorities on issues such as how to improve patient services and public health planning.
8104	The T2S concept is based on 19 General Principles, formulated in cooperation with the market and aimed at ensuring the resilience, integrity and neutrality of the Eurosystem’s settlement platform.
8105	The table was in you absolutely have too.
8106	The tale of the Phoenician princess, robed by Zeus, has become the emblematic figure for the continent and has been interpreted in a multiplicity of ways throughout history.
8107	The talks that followed, given by EGI.eu staff and various members of the project, expanded on the areas.
8108	The target group is citizens over 65 and disabled persons.
8109	The target is to develop a digital model to simulate different strategic scenarios for the site's operation.
8110	The targets set by the agreement will continue to trigger further competition with food crops and will not sufficiently stimulate the use of advanced biofuels, which do not compete with food.
8111	The task of cleaning up the mess and resolving problems is reserved for responsible leaders.
8112	The tasks to do during the integration of Peerstreamer in Cloudy were the following: First contact: what is Peerstreamer?
8113	The TASMC-FUND is authorised to perform and execute research projects in the Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center whilst using its facilities.
8114	The team of Summer School instructors has a long track in academic training, industrial research projects and scientific publications in the areas of ICT-enabled governance.
8115	The teams worked on the entire V-model for two components of the software: the GUI display: the HMI (Human-Machine Interface) and the Middleware: software layer that makes the link between the OS and the user components of the FMS.
8116	The technical characteristics allow to identify the main levers for energy-efficient retrofitting in the different epochs and therefore, address the competence profile of the construction SME and their partners network.
8117	The technical committees instead emphasise the role of the EBU and OIRT and possible co-operation between the two organisations, even if bilateral solutions are recommended in some cases.
8118	The technical term for this is dissociative amnesia.
8119	The Temporary Steering Committee will decide about the next steps.
8120	The tentacles of the structure seem to have been built for years, and extend into many countries.
8121	The ten themes –ranging from social justice and solidarity to democratic regeneration– will converge on Barcelona’s Avinguda Meridiana on September 11th.
8122	The term "degradation" specifically describes a loss of biological or economic productivity and complexity in croplands, pastures or forests.
8123	The term scenario is widely used in different ways and contexts, making it necessary to arrive at a common understanding of how the term is used.
8124	The terrace gardens were established in 1751 by Marie Anna of Fürstenberg; we do not know the authors of the project.
8125	"The test bed initiative is a hugely important opportunity to bring together the needs of healthcare and the creative energy of industry to speed the implementation of digital technologies for patient benefit and to promote economic growth."
8126	The Texan biotech company ProdiGene, one of the leading companies in PMP development, had released genetically modified maize that produces trypsin, a protein found in the pancreas.
8127	The TF will liaise with ESOs to provide feedback.
8128	The Theatre was founded in 2005 by husband and wife Nicolai Khalezin and Natalia Kaliada.
8129	The the draft agenda is available, more information about the venue and registration will be published later this week.
8130	The thermal multienergy cell is an accumulation of primary fluid and works on the principle of natural stratification at different temperatures.
8131	The think tanks and those in control sense this and prepare for it so that they can give the new types of leadership or religions to take over to keep control of the new, and today you'll find all of the New Age religion in all of its forms.
8132	The third objective is to assess the applicability of current targets and indicator sets in the arena of urban sustainable development.
8133	The third pillar, Tackling Societal Challenges, focuses a broad range of the challenges that European society faces now and into the future, issues such as health, demographic change, and energy security.
8134	The third topic I find important is waste to energy, which is certainly a controversial topic.
8135	The third webtool, probably the most important project output, the spatial decision support (SDSS) system is available on the project's website.
8136	The Thoughtless book quotes Network store offers games including PS 1 classics, movies, television shows and also exclusive game add-ons.
8137	The three common forms of skin cancer are: basal cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and malignant melanoma (MM).
8138	The three values that define a spherical joint's configuration are specified as Euler angles.
8139	The threshold for a qualified majority in the Union of 27 would thus be almost 74 %, which was higher than in the Fifteen and meant that it would be harder for a decision to be adopted.
8140	The time has come to recognise the facts and stop wasting people's money.
8141	" 'The tiniest piece of celery can leave me gasping for breath': Rising number of children allergic to fruit and veg" by Daniel Martin (dailymail.
8142	The top of the tower is accessible to the public, offering an ideal view onto the castle complex, both rivers, and the forested area around the castle.
8143	The total budget of the call is EUR 6 million and maximum EU financing of eligible direct costs is 60%.
8144	The total funds for multi-annual institutional funding of research activities amounted to another €6.8m which complements the resources allocated to CSF.
8145	The Tower is made of over 18,000 individual parts, joined by 2.5 million rivets – that would take a lot of painting!
8146	The Trade Mark registration mentioned as trade mark holder “Eneko SA”.
8147	The tradition might be a sect or religion or culture or ideal or style of thought or lifestyle.
8148	The training methods used by Click Reply™ WM include training sessions held out directly on the client’s premises, firstly in a classroom situation and then in the field, in Train The Trainer mode rather than Train The User mode.
8149	The training program will also offer individual consultations to the book professionals from the two countries.
8150	The training resulted in a topographically ordered SOM, in which a single sequence can afterwards be represented by the winning unit in the map.
8151	The TransEco research programme (2009-2013) develops, demonstrates and commercialises technology for improved energy efficiency and reduced emissions in road transport.
8152	The transfer of the Maastricht compliant debt to the ECB could happen in 24 hours.
8153	The transformation of the media system followed a similar pattern; only in 1993, four years after the fall of the regime, a new law on the press was passed.
8154	The transformation rate covers the combined effects of hydrolysis, photolysis and biodegradation and it is a function of temperature.
8155	The transport mechanisms have been tailored to maximize single cell performance by enforcing strict synchronism and orthogonality within a single cell and within a single contiguous frequency band.
8156	The treatment of cervical cancer is entire in the responsibility of gynecologist.
8157	The Treaty establishing the European Economic Community (EEC) provided for a 10 % reduction in custom duties and a relaxation of up to 20 % for global import quotas.
8158	The trend calculation also allows for current legisla- tion, and for the energy efficiency requirements that this imposes on new buildings.
8159	The Troodos Mountains cover most of the southern and western portions of the island and account for roughly half its area.
8160	The true heating value of oil gas may vary between 800 and 1600 Btu per cubic foot depending on operating conditions and feedstock properties.
8161	The true spirit of a country is that which binds you together, and really the mores and things which bound Americans together have been really demolished and chipped away for a hundred years.
8162	The truth is that we are so free that we don’t even care that all human beings deserve a chance to live a decent life.
8163	The truth of the matter is that traditional versions create a lot of that grating noise.
8164	The TTIP might also lead to other serious consequences for the EU and its members.
8165	The tuition fees are among the highest in Europe and the cost of living is also high.
8166	The twinning process between the two regions is also of key importance for Greece as a whole by further strengthening the capacity of the country to produce regulations and policies in compliance with EU environmental regulations.
8167	The two alternative annotation scenarios and the Open Data publication support offered by the DataTank are discussed in details in this section.
8168	The two countries' ministers of interior will present each state's preparedness.
8169	The two days of events will shine the spotlight on European film as one of the most important agents in the shaping of European cultural identity – and, above all, on the three selected films themselves.
8170	The two EPP Group Co-Coordinators also welcomed that the Commission also proposed a ban on characterising flavours in cigarettes.
8171	The two legislative proposals were presented by the European Commission in January 2012.
8172	The two main types are: (i.) population monitoring, where non-expert citizens collect species data on birds, fish, amphibians and plants, or (ii.) ecosystem monitoring, where they monitor processes, such as water and air pollution.
8173	The two signs at issue are visually, phonetically and conceptually almost identical.
8174	The two steeples of this church are identical and they are accessible from the chancel area.
8175	The two vessels arrived safely at their destination with humanitarian aid and other logistic supplies.
8176	The UEL for Future Wards project at the Rotherham NHS Foundation Trust has completed its demonstration phase.
8177	The UEMO, representing General Practitioners in the European Countries has an important role in advocating policies that could lead to better health status of the population.
8178	The UK, if it is decided to leave Europe, leaving the EU, right now!
8179	The Ukraine Support Group which has started its work already - its mandate remains the same and its focus, remains the same.
8180	The UK’s foreign policy ambition is either buoyant, fragile, or simply broken.
8181	The ultimate goal of the consortium is to develop an endoscope based on non-linear optics (NLO) and laser pulse phase shaping.
8182	The ultimate goal of the EORTC is to improve the standard of cancer treatment by developing new agents and innovative approaches and to test more effective treatment strategies using commercially available drugs, or surgery and radiotherapy.
8183	The UMD Release Schedule is updated as required: Changes in Technology Provider Release Schedules may trigger changes in the UMD Release Schedule.
8184	The UNAIDS and Lancet Commission: Defeating AIDS – Advancing global health, was launched in May 2013 to allow global leaders to deliberate on the following three questions: 1. What will it take to end AIDS?
8185	The underlying idea is that cities can enhance their critical mass and common competitiveness, sustainability and cohesion by exploring competitive advantages together.
8186	The UN, facing a growing number of increasingly complex crises, seeks material support in order to carry out its tasks.
8187	The un-Greek echo cs 306 chainsaw manual counterterm has been left to fade.
8188	The Union will continue to closely follow further developments and contribute to the deliberations.
8189	The United Kingdom’s interest in Europe met with a mixed reaction elsewhere.
8190	The United Nations, by the way - I have articles here from them and a book was sent to me from one of them - showing me these domed cities and some areas.
8191	The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) recognises and enforces the rights of children.
8192	The United Nations is not a nation either.
8193	The United Nations signed a document with all the countries that had HAARP technology in the 1970s.
8194	The United Nations was set up as the main front organization by this particular group a long time ago.
8195	The University is committed to providing students the support and resources needed to succeed as participants in distance education.
8196	The University offers a strong foundation in the humanities and sciences and undergraduate, graduate and professional degree programs through seven schools.
8197	The University of Lisbon, one of the 11 project partners, invited delegates from all participating countries to a workshop in Exhibit Design.
8198	The University of Southampton’s Web Science Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) is part of a £250m investment in the future of UK science and technology by the Research Council’s UK Digital Economy Programme.
8199	The University provides a Post Graduate Training Scheme, the Faculty has a Research Seminar Series and encourages students to become involved in many all aspects of activity.
8200	The university wanted to create a "living lab" for clean energy and efficiency, students and school administrators said during a press conference here.
8201	The unmixing algorithms will be adapted to enable multi-GPU-based hardware configurations.
8202	The up-dated Corolla 2010 will further enhance the Toyota sedan’s reputation for offering outstanding value for money in the C-sedan segment.
8203	"The up-dates were largely on process optimisation, feedstock sustainability and process monitoring.
8204	The upgrading of the airfield mainly involves the leveling of the strips and runway end safety areas (RESA) of the 02-20 runway and the removal of existing obstacles.
8205	The upper part of town had the church of St.
8206	The uptake of e-mobility in Berlin has lately registered several private vehicles in the whole urban area.
8207	The usage and exploitation of the main AGRICOM results is guaranteed by several activities after project ending: First, the AGRICOM website continues to be the main communication channel for agricultural competences.
8208	The use case intends to create web based GIS applications for the water balance estimation, for the creation of hydro chemical and salinization maps and for the regional contamination.
8209	The use of Click Reply™ WM solution in its “standard” and “vertical” version, allows CEVA Logistics to efficiently manage its operations and to integrate its distribution network with its business partners.
8210	The use of fishmeal in feed for ruminants in Norway might have had a potential impact on the risk of cattle exposure to BSE till April 2010.
8211	The use of multiple existing data sources for a new purpose.
8212	The use of this technology is assumed to be extended significantly.
8213	The user could go to the "Entry list" region to view the new content.) A brief guide to better qualifications…….
8214	The user has to remember the default operator inserted among the terms on the same line.
8215	The users’ requirements in term of security, access rights and personalization were defined and the architecture of the security module was issued in accordance to the whole system architecture.
8216	The US’s new pledge isn’t any more ambitious than its existing commitments were.
8217	The various plans put forward in the late 1970s and early 1980s by the European Parliament, the Commission and by some Member States were unanimous in calling for a significant reform of the operating rules.
8218	The various sport clubs give you an opportunity to train, compete and socialise with fellow club members.
8219	The Vector Entomology Unit of Switzerland's University of Zurich is seeking candidates for an Academic Associate or Post-doc position.
8220	The venom comes in many forms, from gas to darts to liquid poison, and has been Gordon — stops the virus with help from another A.I.: the Batcomputer, as programmed by the long-dead Bruce Wayne.
8221	The Video Contest will be open until Sunday 17th of May.
8222	The videos, at this writing, still have not been declassified.
8223	The videos will cover all aspects of clean vehicle procurement and include star turns from members of the Clean Fleets coordination team.
8224	The village offers the opportunity to visit the local castle, whose origins date back to the 13 already century.
8225	The villa itself also represents an architectural form of a simplified Zakopane style or, more precisely, regional architecture from the Podhale region, which emerged under the influence of the Zakopane style.
8226	The virtual machine image provides also a well configured environment that can be extended with additional Platform components and/or be deployed on parallel hardware.
8227	The visible and audible aspiration of the contemporary Arab societies to revive their cultural heritage has a lot to gain from the translation and transfer of modern knowledge into Arabic.
8228	The visit concluded with a talk between Prof.
8229	The visit to Vandellós has given us an opportunity to have an in-depth knowledge of the Spanish proposition and to discover the site of Vandellós and its technical and socio-economics characteristics.
8230	The Voluntary Partnership Agreement (VPA) that will be negotiated is a legally-binding agreement, designed to set up control and licencing systems to ensure that all timber imported to the EU from Côte d'Ivoire has been produced legally.
8231	The voracious appetite of many developing countries for meat indicates that once a society encounters it at low prices, in the absence of taboo or other cultural restraint, consumption will climb to unsustainable, Western, levels.
8232	The vote was called by the RMT union in response to proposals to put the Gourock to Dunoon service out to competitive tender but the Scottish Executive says EU rules compel them to open routes to competition.
8233	The water content and tension, CO2 and temperature profiles are monitored.
8234	The water from these mountains flows into all of Europe’s seas.
8235	The WB EDIF Guarantee Facility provides guarantees and counter-guarantees to financial intermediaries in the Western Balkans, supporting SMEs with growth potential.
8236	The webinar is scheduled for Friday, 22 March between 10:00-12:00 CET.
8237	The website is: www.spazidocili.org. Costa’s preferred techniques are installation, video and performance; often focusing on sound.
8238	The week before plenary sessions is usually reserved for meetings of the political groups to prepare their position in Plenary.
8239	The weighting for Portugal is currently -15%, and it is applied to the basic salary.
8240	The weight to be taken into consideration is the gross-gross weight of goods.
8241	The West Bank exclusion was confirmed in the CJEU’s 2010 Brita judgment.
8242	The WG meeting will take place on 18th September from 13:30 to 15:00 in Brussels South Charleroi Airport (B).
8243	The whereabouts of several other public figures are still unknown, as in the case of Abdulhadi al-Khawaja, the former President of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights.
8244	The widespread persistence of all kinds of discrimination, remains one of Europe’s most pressing human rights concerns, and affects the lives of millions across the continent.
8245	The winding up of the EUG and the EGS will be completed on 31 December 2003 and the EUG and EGS assets will be transferred to the new association.
8246	The word of God and the moral laws were known also to those who perhaps did not love the Lord with all their heart, and even they gave honour to God as the Creator and the Lord of Hosts who had freed the Dutch from many oppressive restraints.
8247	The Working Groups act autonomously and independently but in accordance with the general strategy of the programme.
8248	The work of the AAT programme is based on collaboration – not only between Cosmetics Europe’s member companies – but also with other groups that have a legitimate interest in the outcome of the research.
8249	The work of the NTUA group is published in International Reviews, Conference Proceedings and Technical Reports.
8250	The workshop focuses, in particular, on the properties of low frequency electromagnetic waves and their effects on radiation belts dynamics.
8251	The workshop focussed on the game industry, on its market potential, on the related emerging technologies.
8252	The workshop is organised by the TEN4Health project which is supported by the European Commission.
8253	The workshops were attended by various road safety stakeholders such as road safety experts, engineers, NGOs, research institutes, local road authorities and automobile clubs.
8254	The workshops were largely devoted to the presentation of this material and the discussions they led to.
8255	The Workshops were provided for local crafts experts, professional lecturers, trainers and representatives of cultural organizations by Mr.
8256	The workshop was closed by SOLUTIONS team experts with a presentation on successful measures implemented in Europe and India, with potential to be also implemented in Cochin.
8257	The workshop was organised with the support of ExxonMobil.
8258	The workshop will be divided into two sessions.
8259	The workshop will be held on 17th September in Poznan during TPDL.
8260	The workshop will be practical and hands-on.
8261	The workshop will look at EFSA’s work in evaluating active substances and in developing guidance documents that will regulate our sector in future.
8262	The workshop will take place at the "Palamas" building of the University of Athens - 48, Akadimias Str.
8263	The work was done in a PRACE Preparatory Access project within the PRACE-1IP extension.
8264	The work was exhibited at the Dresden Museum and in 1899 she was awarded the gold medal by the King of Saxony.
8265	The Worldwide LHC Computing Grid (WLCG) was set up as a global collaboration linking grid infrastructures and computer centres around the world to handle the data deluge pouring out of the LHC.
8266	The WTO system, in particular, is precisely premised on the principle of de-regulation, or of negative integration.
8267	The WUTS nomenclature is outdated (split of Serbia and Montegro; split of North and South Sudan) and the methodology used to create WUTS units could be improved (according to their authors).
8268	The www.coupleseurope.eu website is now online, thanks to the work of the Notaries of Europe and the support of the European Commission.
8269	The X-CM32BT connects to your iPod, iPhone and iPad easily – via USB – for music playback and charging the battery.
8270	They actually refer to it like that, when the world would start to amalgamate together.
8271	They add: “Microscopical observation of Leishmania morphological stages in invertebrates, however, remains the gold standard of detection enabling assessment of localization in the gut at different time points post-bloodmeal.
8272	They agreed on the need for capacity building and resource enhancing of local administrations before any new competences can be transferred to them.
8273	They agreed to continue working in their macro-regional strategy and obtain a high-level recognition.
8274	They all are.) In 1933, Hubbert and Howard Scott formed an organization called Technocracy, Inc.
8275	They all had homes.
8276	They all know all this stuff.
8277	They already know when they come home the first thing that they do is take off their shoes, but when they have to do it other places as well, it makes it that much easier for them to remember.
8278	They also enable procedural deadlines and operational costs to be reduced for the benefit of citizens, businesses, legal practitioners and justice administration.
8279	They always put it in their favor, don't they?
8280	They are: BonFIRE decided to adopt OCCI as its standard interface to access the different infrastructure sites in a seamless manner for experimenters.
8281	They are both published in the FET QIPC proactive initiative web site and by the Publications Office of the European Commission.
8282	They are in strong relationship with their respective city authorities, Santander and Fujisawa, to help them to become “smarter”.
8283	They are known for the unconstrained style and unbelieveable design.
8284	They are opposing the way the government and Europe, not to mention the IMF, is dealing with the crisis.
8285	They are ordering a certain type of child: a certain type of height, color of eyes, et cetera.
8286	They are part of our civilization; and Europe can never be completely healthy till Germany is healthy too.
8287	They are part of the GLORIA project, which aims to bring the thrill of real science to people all over the world, via the web.
8288	They are responsible for: Safety representatives for the OSH Committee must be elected by the workers in all workplaces employing 10 or more persons.
8289	They are saying, we are murderers.
8290	They are saying, yes, it’s eugenics.
8291	They are serene given the sound economic situation of their country.
8292	They are specialised in coatings and large pieces but they also want to expand towards micro- and nanodevices.
8293	They are talking about what’s happening back home as well.) as it cautioned a full recovery will take years.
8294	They are talking on behalf of the elite and therefore they would have to ram things through under different guises but still give the pretense of democracy.
8295	They are the authoritarian figures, and the cops themselves come out of the same society of indoctrination, so they truly believe that they are authoritarian figures and that we’re supposed to obey them.
8296	They are the elites of the world of every culture and nationality.
8297	“They are usually are aware of our product quality, but are always stunned by the quality of Toyota’s vehicle operations as well.
8298	They argue that Brussels has too much power.
8299	They argue that living under Azerbaijani rule will cause (further) persecution.
8300	They built up hundreds across the world, for this purpose.
8301	They can all be enhanced with a line of light using LED strips.
8302	They can also make an observation about all or specific part of the visualisation.”
8303	They can also sort out your problem in condemnation related cases like landowner rights and land compensation.
8304	They can be described as the architects of the first model for the transition from communism to a market economy.
8305	They cannot reform themselves.
8306	They can tell you more about local culture than any travel book. adapted from www.visitbritain.co.uk Przeczytaj tekst.
8307	They can then be implemented and applied in a decentralised manner, i.e. at national level, with the result that institutional adjustments are not essential.
8308	They can’t say how this kind of heat could have possibly been originated from.
8309	They carry torpedoes – sure eliminators of any unlucky ship to cross their paths.
8310	They come out, here’s an image for you, or do you do you want to be rebellious, here’s the image we’ve created for you, join it, you know, take your pick.
8311	They commit Europe to building a more secure, sustainable, and competitive energy system based on freely flowing energy across Europe, with more low-emission, locally produced, renewable, and efficient energy.
8312	They contain project updates, information about events, industry news, project resources, as well as behind the scenes insight into TRANSFORuM and provide a platform to spark and continue discussions outside our face-to-face meetings.
8313	They contain sulfur and oxygen in the form SO and include common minerals such as gypsum.
8314	They could keep it going for as long as they wanted to; it's always been based on the same thing.
8315	They created the New Age movement to get everybody thinking as we're all one, we are the world, we are the children – sung by adults.
8316	They'd been taught to believe in it.
8317	They describe how the use of incoming funds to offset outgoing payments allows participants to avoid incurring costly overdrafts from the central bank and hence reduces the liquidity cost of making payments.
8318	They developed the environment fro training micro- and nanoelectronics in two pilot projects from LdV programme.
8319	They did a complete study on the people there.
8320	They didn’t say anything when Pierre Trudeau was running for his candidacy, that he was actually the communist leader.
8321	They do both custom and standard printing.
8322	They don’t care about bankrupting you, paying for all of this stuff.
8323	They don't eat the stuff we do.
8324	They don’t like to talk about that part of it then you offspring the next generation he can go even further and up to the 40th Degree you third generation can go all the way.
8325	They even financed these organizations into being to try to end what they call marriage and conflict and things like that.
8326	They even had the Irish marked down for elimination because they wouldn't go along and join Britain.
8327	They even knew the time they would bring it in.
8328	They even use the word ‘revolution,’ the sexual revolution, all the different revolutions they had planned to take down society and to make them easier to manage, fromthe governments.
8329	They explained that most students who participated in their study said that they get two main messages from home and from society – that opportunities in Gozo are limited and that Gozo has a more relaxed lifestyle than Malta.
8330	They fall for the posters with the halo behind the head.
8331	They followed up the fast with a daily raw food diet using organic produce.
8332	They found that a gene called AURKA is required for the growth of MYCN-amplified tumours, but is not needed by cells lacking amplified MYCN.
8333	They fund them to take off to different countries to help start off what appears to be a popular uprising, a revolution, to get a new system in.
8334	They get arms and then sneak back across borders we can’t control.”
8335	They get happy on deceiving people.
8336	They go on to become leaders in academic medicine and health care and innovators in clinical practice, biotechnology, and public policy.
8337	They had and have no choice.
8338	They had discussed overcrowding the European cities, they discussed this at the end of World War II.
8339	They had gotten used to western style negotiations.
8340	They had riots there, and they turned the British military on the people and had mass shootings in the streets.
8341	They had the opportunity to create their own short movie through new media using their Smartphone.
8342	They have a completely different overview of themselves, their families, the world, how it really runs.
8343	They have all major brands ranging from Nike to Power Cheer.
8344	They have a menu bar and distinct views.
8345	They have, for example, promoted the use maps for each industrial sector.
8346	They have other plans ranging to 2030, 2050.
8347	They have paved the way by developing an approach - along with new designs for road surfaces and tyres - to turn the volume down.
8348	They have taken place in each of the 7 target countries (United Kingdom, Germany, Poland, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and Sweden).
8349	They have to be audited every two years, and they’ll have to pay for that in some states.
8350	They have to pretend they are after your safety, just like Homeland Security.
8351	They have to tag prices and put the articles in the shelves.
8352	They have to take steps to be as perfect as possible, for their people live under their rule for a long time.
8353	They hire, they retire and hire again until they get their jobs done.
8354	The yields on government securities are also lower which is expected to lead to gradual improvement of financing conditions and confidence.
8355	They immediately want those around them to have the same experience.
8356	They include indicators relating to: environment; population and resources; economy; youth and education; and health and community.
8357	They include: The HMP procedure expects a work over 3 years, so 1 year more than the experiment official ending.
8358	They just suspected they were there, and all that nonsense.
8359	They knew this back in the 80s, you know.
8360	They learned about the concept of the Earth having an ‘atmosphere’, ‘gravity’ and about the ‘habitable zone’ - the region around the Sun in which a planet can have liquid water on its surface.
8361	They'll be reading from each other's work and then discuss.
8362	They’ll be very obedient workers, and quite content.
8363	They'll go from one to the next as they go across the world to the global cities, the international cities, but they'll have it much better than the peasantry back home.
8364	They’ll place the pictures in sequence on the board and play, ensuring slide transitions aren’t too jerky (Fade usually works the best).
8365	They’ll shut down in front of you and they won’t want to look at it again.
8366	They made a deal with the British government and wrote it into law that their books would never be opened; they’d never pay any taxes and no one would have a look at what they brought in or put out.
8367	They might enjoy life to an extent and then they’ll die off.
8368	They must have: In addition, anoraks usually have at least one of the following: In relation to anoraks, the term 'and similar articles' includes garments that have the features of an anorak except for either a hood or a lining.
8369	They must organise their administrations to make sure that these laws are respected in practice.
8370	They not only stem from the tradition and culture of the European regions but they also contribute massively to their economic growth.
8371	They now have positioned themselves as the progressive, enlighted farmers.
8372	They now need to be implemented in line with European standards and best practice.
8373	They organise the congress and pilot programme with partners and build up a social franchising network.
8374	The Yorkshire Dales and North York Moors are both National Parks, accessible by public transport, where you will find incredible scenery and bracing, fresh air.
8375	The youth jobless rates for Spain and Greece are above 50 percent, according to data from Eurostat, the EU statistics agency.
8376	They play a role in quality reviewing projects and examining reports in detail.
8377	They presented historical background, previous and on-going projects and also shared some of their own experiences within the organisation.
8378	They promote the idea that everyone should have access to medical care, no matter who you are or what your situation is.
8379	They proposed that in the future MPs should be allowed to choose the seat of their institution themselves – with no mention of Strasbourg or Brussels.
8380	They put on their national news.”
8381	They’re all doing the same things, exactly, so they think they’re sane: I’m doing what everybody else is doing.
8382	They’re always quoting other people but they have nothing to say for themselves.
8383	They recognized the contribution of development partners mainly through the Ebola Recovery Assessment (ERA).
8384	They're creating an actual matrix, like the movie, with you in there.
8385	They regularly are taken by surprise and cheated a little bit.
8386	They’re just so confident they’re going to break out.
8387	They’re now putting snipers in helicopters to go over the crowds, army snipers.
8388	They’re testing it on the black crust that coats some stone fragments from the Doge’s Palace in Venice, Italy, that attracts hundreds of thousands of visitors each year.
8389	They’re trying to get him in with his Red Brigade, basically.
8390	They're used to him, but anything else will really spook them and off they go.
8391	They're very good with their coincidences because there's nothing coincidental at all.
8392	They're very into these particular movements, unfortunately, but they're being used.
8393	They said eventually and inevitably those with the biggest groups would hold the power.
8394	They said that the Israel was to be set up, led by God, not by men.
8395	They said the main sticking points remain the removal of U.N. sanctions and Iranian demands for the right to unfettered research and development into advanced nuclear centrifuges after the first 10 years of the agreement expires.
8396	They said, what do we do?
8397	They see it as Darwinian and they’re the survival of the fittest; they’re at the top of the tree; they have the right to manage the great unwashed masses the way that they see fit.
8398	They serve to reduce their economic and social shortfall, as well as to stabilise their economy through targeted investment in infrastructure and development.
8399	They set the trends and all the people down below copy the fad because they can’t think for themselves.
8400	They should collectively define joint activities for future cooperation and implement a joint management structure and even have mutual resources (i.e. finances and human resources).
8401	They should have real consequences for the relations between the EU and Azerbaijan.
8402	They show that Scotland expects to be at the bottom of the EU league in terms of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 payments per hectare by the end of the next MFF period.
8403	They sided with Greece to block Macedonia.
8404	They take most of that off you, too.
8405	They take the form of catastrophe bonds, insurance, weather derivatives.
8406	They talk a little then sign everything they are needed for.
8407	They talked to some of the people, the US servicemen who were there, present at the time, and they added their two cents into it as well.
8408	They talk to voices in the ether but they don’t actually see real people.
8409	They tend to be big on assets like huge houses and estates in England, but not with a lot of cash."
8410	They think you're stupid.
8411	They told me that about 2 months ago and it cost quite and arm and a leg to replace parts that did not need it because afterwards I found out I was on a lock.
8412	They took us to the area of town that locals go out in, and we had a great time; then it was back to our hostel to attempt to get a bit of sleep before our last full day in Prague.
8413	They tried to bring it in after World War I but it didn’t work so they kept at it.
8414	They try to find solutions, not to let people starve.
8415	They used to call it fascism, corporate fascism.
8416	They’ve all got their big webpages up that are paid for by the taxpayer, and all the usual people that you’re so used to on television, Suzuki, the guy who actually is up on youtube calling people maggots.
8417	They've always been here and they call it "the law of nature", so they have a thousand rationalizations and justifications for why they should be at the top and why they should act gods on the world.
8418	They've been doing for a while now this "land for debt swap."
8419	They’ve been very, very good at this for the last 100-odd years.
8420	They've done it in the past.
8421	They’ve got everything there.
8422	They've got to make sure you're healthy in the way that they designed you.
8423	They wanted to get rid of the farmers.
8424	They wanted to give it more power.
8425	They want to believe that these politicians really have their best interests at heart, which you can look at from a hundred angles by the way – that statement – and it’s never done.
8426	They want to co-opt you and give you money.
8427	They were agitated.
8428	They were always funded by the big institutions like the Rockefeller Foundation, which started up the American Eugenics Society—the one that had people being sterilized all the way up into the 1970's because they were deemed unfit to have offspring.
8429	They were committed.
8430	They were completely self-sufficient.
8431	They were divided in different cities, experience, professions.
8432	They were doctors and laboratory technicians, etc, who churned out these favorable reports and dismissed all the negative stuff.
8433	They were largely of a class not often seen in the church but xxx henital milftoon came and.
8434	They were the ones who consumed, they were the wasters.
8435	They will also optimise vehicle availability throughout the charging station network.
8436	They will also use the next eight months to pass laws such as those regarding professional training or administrative simplification that are still pending in Parliament.
8437	They will be able to apply the acquired knowledge in their professional occupation.
8438	They will be documenting their journey with regular news updates which you can follow online.
8439	They will bring in the viewpoint from the ITS industry.
8440	They will give ‘a combined majority of national parliaments the automatic ability to block unwanted legislation’.
8441	They will have the opportunity to discuss the project with French Forestry Office's Executive Director Pascal Viné and French Forestry Office's Head of the Board of Directors Hervé Gaymard.
8442	They will no longer be necessary.
8443	They will provide the management for the Polish associated organisations.
8444	They will receive an allowance based on childcare rates at the meeting place from an EDIT fund.
8445	They will sway as well, which way the wind goes, and that's happened before in history.
8446	They will tell you who supplied the vehicles for all the smashes that they had, or the ones that they want you to buy.
8447	They will thus be less interested in employing persons with disabilities.
8448	They will use money and your bank account as a weapon against you, to make you go along with all the new protocols and dictates as to what you'll eat, what you'll buy.
8449	They won’t notice it.
8450	They would give them mainly dictates from government that you obey, immersed, totally immersed and surrounded by trivia.
8451	They would think they were free.
8452	The Z boy, in high masonry.
8453	Thin concrete forms a smooth product suitable for use in garden decorations, concrete overlays and other non-load-bearing products.
8454	Think about the innocent lives of the citizens that had been shed.
8455	Third, CSDP missions do not have legal personality.
8456	Thirdly, the accession process needed a new impetus, the Commissioner continued.
8457	Third, the partners will need to discuss the requested primary surplus.
8458	This 4-week online program dedicated to IoT projects will enable you to find out if your Idea (or technology) has a Real Business Potential, explore whether you are built for entrepreneurship.
8459	This action supports nuclear safeguards and fissile material control by providing metrological tools to organisations and laboratories in the nuclear and environmental field.
8460	This adds to the fragmentation of the Canadian procurement regime and the confusion of suppliers about which rules apply to what procurement.
8461	This advice"Trait"Is because model of the reflector from the front lights gathering.
8462	This agreement does just that and will really foster sustainable, high-quality business and investment on both sides,' said the Commissioner.
8463	This aim is to guaranty an individualized follow-up which enables to satisfy the specific needs related to the singularity and particular characteristics of each one of the projects.
8464	This algorithm was popularized under the name direct bitmaps in the networking community by Estan et al.
8465	This allows me to use my preferred modules, even though they are not in the repository for the project.
8466	This allows the corporations to dominate the narrative and manipulate the arguments to the general public on what is in their best interest.
8467	This also allows the establishment of an orphan works registry and to build and/or interconnect out of commerce registries.
8468	This also requires an enabling environment in line with the acquis.
8469	This amount corresponds to 4,200,000 km travelled with a diesel-engined car (4.5 l/km).
8470	This amount must Could you ask her to call me?
8471	This application was approved by the Respondent, EURid.
8472	This applies in a way to our case as well.
8473	This approach, consisting in identifying best practices and then harmonising the performance of supervision accordingly, is also reflected in the work we are currently undertaking at the SSM on regulatory options and national discretions.
8474	This approach is now termed 'receiver function technique’, and it provides the most accurate data on depths and fine structure of the mantle discontinuities worldwide.
8475	This approach to industrial organisation is a far cry from traditional practices in Asia.
8476	This approach will give good possibilities for automating dataflows in small steps.
8477	"This approval by the EMA represents an important milestone in our manufacturing recovery and path toward unconstrained supply for all patients," said Genzyme's President and CEO David Meeker.
8478	This area includes new technologies (including “nano” and electro-mechanical) and sensor-based analog circuits.
8479	This article tries to fill this gap by engaging with sociological records provided by the CLANDESTINO project, which has produced country reports of data and trends of undocumented migration across Europe.
8480	This article was first published by The Breakthrough Institute and is republished here with permission.
8481	This asymmetry index is based on the electron density variation that a ray may experience along its propagation path (satellite to satellite link) in a RO event.
8482	This bag is made with fur felt, vinyl, and cotton.
8483	This beetle feeds on leaves of ash, privet and others deciduous trees.
8484	This began to change in the 1990s, however, when the privatisation of radio and television shifted the linguistic compass towards urban Wolof as talk show hosts engaged with listeners in the language of everyday life.
8485	This being said if inequality in the table you consult an attorney the superintendents house which.
8486	This bias needs to be corrected.
8487	This blockage, which is steadily leading to a state of paralysis in the development of the European structure, is explained, inter alia, by a growth crisis in the EU.
8488	This business allowed to renovate buildings in the village of Kalopanayiotis and to employ local people.
8489	This call for tenders was published in the OJEU S47 of 7 March 2015.
8490	This calls for a pragmatic and straightforward sharing of ideas, projects and results.
8491	This can be individually or as a group in a seminar room.
8492	This can be seen as a command/message subscription from the client to the server, where the server will be streaming the data to the client.
8493	This car might be their alternative product for less wealthy regions in the world.
8494	This category is considered as value added services to businesses or consumers and in some cases back to government.
8495	This causes waterstress.
8496	This certificate must have been drawn up no more than two months prior to the marriage, and is submitted to the mairie along with the other documents.
8497	This change is to be done according to federalist principles of democracy, subsidiarity and division of powers.
8498	This comprehensive site connects you with the latest West Jefferson NC real estate listings, and homes for sale.
8499	This conference explores how MEMS and MOEMS will enable the mass-produced miniaturized products and integrated systems of the future.
8500	This conference will be held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on 18–20 October 2009.
8501	This congress will study the reasons behind the global financial crisis and economic recession, discuss the challenges faced by shipping and shipbuilding industries and identify new ideas and new opportunities to improve upon the current market position.
8502	This constitutes their individual identities.
8503	This continuous contact with chemicals which may increase the risk of developing hormonal, nervous or reproductive disorders as well as cancer over the lifetime.
8504	This contrasts with the new generation of Free Trade Agreements the European Union is concluding with third countries which include many areas which remain outside the Custom Union´s scope, such as agriculture, services, and public procurement.
8505	“This could be the first judicial warning shot to governments around the world,” said Bill Hare, of independent research group Climate Analytics.
8506	This could change substantially by 2030 with fixed broadband and Wi-Fi playing a growing role in delivering « RT @H2020funds: EU investment..
8507	This course endeavors to fill that gap.
8508	This course is assigned for users, who want to create web pages easily and effectively using Adobe Dreamweaver.
8509	This database will provide you with updates and results of projects, and therefore will give you a better understanding on how they contribute to the development of our cross-border cooperation area.
8510	This data privacy policy applies only to our web pages.
8511	This data will in fact do much more that that: it will help us understand the fundamentals of grid-generated turbulence interacting with walls, i.e. provide us with fundamental knowledge and insight on such turbulence.
8512	This decision shall be implemented by the Registry within thirty (30) days after the notification of the decision to the Parties, unless the Respondent initiates court proceedings in a Mutual Jurisdiction (see Paragraphs B12(a) and B14 of the ADR Rules).
8513	This definition doesn't tell us.
8514	This deliverable attempts to identify and describe the primary ecosystem of mobile cloud services, from a business context, and in light of that to describe MNOs current strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats.
8515	This demand from the 14 Bar Associations in Catalonia is well within the law.
8516	This demonstrates the enormous gap that exists between the discourse of these two institutions - supposedly in favour of SMEs - and their policy decisions, generally much more in favour of larger firms.
8517	This didn’t just mark the fact that one drank, but that one drank a lot3.
8518	This directory contains common files included during the installation process.
8519	This directory contains files used during a standalone installation or upgrade, calling on the files in include/install.
8520	This document does not substitute for the thorough reading of all articles mentioned and in particular Article 56. If you have any comments and/or suggestions for the further development of the Technical Guidance Paper, please send them to aurelie.
8521	This document entitled “It’s about Us, it’s about Europe!
8522	This document, entitled "Turkish Science Policy: 1983-2003", explicitly recognised the role of technology in development, and suggested priority areas of technology.
8523	This document guides the reader to an identification of barriers to action and to the research methods to better understand a barrier.
8524	This document is a living document that will evolve during the project.
8525	This documents the attendance of the on-site course, successful examination and home assignment, i.e. that an advanced studies award worth 3 ECTS credits have been achieved.
8526	This document was created to give IT personal in regulatory authorities and companies guidance on the installation of the CADDY Retrieval Software.
8527	This does not mean that it has to be a unitary state, with a single all powerful government.
8528	This draft list of research needs is now online and available via the Forum linked to work package 1. It will be developed and used as a basis for strategic papers on research needs for the second joint call.
8529	This edition’s member profile, featuring the French ANSP, DSNA, clearly illustrates how the involvement of different actors can bring unique “savoir faire” to the SESAR table.
8530	This effect remains unaltered once the impact of mother's job loss on grades is accounted for.
8531	This emerged as a central issue during Jyrki Katainen's hearing in his capacity as vice president-designate of the European Commission where he will be responsible precisely for this plan.
8532	This entry was posted in Auto & Motor and tagged Canada, Cheap Size, EPS, Michael Pachter.
8533	This entry was posted in Business and tagged Alternative Payment Determining.
8534	This entry was posted in Business and tagged Masai Without, MBT, Swiss Masai.
8535	This entry was posted in Collaborations, News, Resources, Translations on February 6, 2014 by Angelina Brotherhood.
8536	This entry was posted in Internet Services and tagged Clothing Styles, Video Transcript.
8537	This event is considered as one of the leading global forums intended for spreading Open Source Software state of the art to academic, scientific, research communities and also to developers, early adopter and decisions-makers from all over the world.
8538	This event is relevant to the EU agenda with regard to: the Energy Union, the internal energy market, renewable energy; structural and cohesion funds; support schemes; local and regional energy planning; financing; and future perspectives towards 2030.
8539	This event will be divided into two parts, an area dedicated to conferences focused on the current state of biodiversity in Europe and the world, the pressures and threats it is subjected and the rate of biodiversity loss.
8540	This Everquest 2 Platinum, SevenCash and Station Cash Hack is undetectable on all official servers.
8541	This evidence has enabled us to draw a number of important conclusions, relevant to a future CAP and the delivery of the EU’s biodiversity objectives.
8542	This exchange is not open to vehicle manufacturers at this time, but their involvement will be requested as part of ongoing work.
8543	This exercise uncovers a richness of experience that usually goes unexplored and illustrates one of meditation's significant benefits—being deeply present in the moments of your own life.
8544	This facilitates the development of new products and services which of in turn can increase the world-wide use of the data.
8545	This feature service allows users to make an observation.
8546	This figure can be higher and - equally - considerably lower should Google has found a way to manage server output in new ways.
8547	This file is given to the syntax parser component, which produces a new file containing the parsed version of its sentences.
8548	This finding is also supported by respondent’s contentions in its response.
8549	This first release of the Sentinel-2 Toolbox is a stand-alone toolbox intended for exploitation of high resolution optical data.
8550	This followed a $75 million loan guarantee from USDA.
8551	This follows the positive assessment of the sixth quarterly review of Cyprus’s macroeconomic adjustment programme and approval of the supplemental Memorandum of Understanding with Cyprus by the ESM Board of Governors.
8552	This Forum discusses ways to make political will become reality.
8553	This framework may be useful to predict changes in ecosystem integrity in the current context of global growing human pressures.
8554	This framework should encourage both bench-to-bedside research and rapid, collaborative assessment through innovative clinical trials of the novel interventions that result.
8555	This free downloadable package contains all the necessary drivers for ATIs range of video cards.
8556	This funcitionality is already available for projects, but not for CWGs.
8557	This function should be considered deprecated in the favor of Calendar.
8558	This global survey seeks to assess the nature and dynamics of such transnational arrangements between higher education institutions in various countries and regions.
8559	This green shoot can detoxify the selection tool spectinomycin and thus form the chlorophyll so typical of plants.
8560	This Green Week session will highlight the importance of sound land and soil management in Europe.
8561	This guide book is a further development of the European Commission guide book on waste water systems for smaller communities of the year 2000, which can be downloaded from the EC website.
8562	This guy is SHARP.
8563	This happened in 1991, through the HVPU reform, which was based on three goals: closing down institutions in a period of five years, increasing the quality of housing conditions and creating the necessary means for independent living.
8564	This happens as soon as the driver starts to turn the steering wheel, allowing the vehicle to track the intended driving line more accurately.
8565	This happens when the option Packet1 is blank (faster) in the vision sensor propreties is turned on, in order to speed-up the operation of a vision sensor.
8566	This has a positive impact on the motivation to learn.
8567	This has been accompanied by national and Europe-wide funders adopting policies and mandates in favour of Open Access publishing and archiving.
8568	This has been fulfilled for two problem areas defined at the beginning of the project: the sundeck of a river cruiser and a cardeck of a RORO ship.
8569	This has been reported by the Sunday Times and the BBC, both quoting government sources.
8570	This has fuelled inequality, not investment.
8571	This has led to very positive coverage by the national media in the UK, including from the BBC and Guardian newspaper.
8572	This has made it natural or “Selbstverstandlich” for the German public to blame the heavily indebted countries for their misfortunes.
8573	This has resulted in 4.3 million distribution records of 17,000 species in all the European seas and many of the world’s oceans.
8574	This high-speed broadband network will enable access and exchange between scientific databases and facilitate international cooperation via faster data transfer.
8575	This historical-comparative perspective, in all its positive and negative potentiality, is an important paradigm.
8576	This hotel is the ideal base for you to discover all the various museums in Amsterdam and the city itself.
8577	This idea has been developed through a series of workshops and study visits.
8578	This identification of productive locations will be joined together with other reports in order to create match-makings between local grass residue producers and biogas plants.
8579	This identification work is very useful.
8580	This illusion of security is easy as it does not require facts or analysis, but it should not be confused with true security as it does not protect your assets or secure your information.
8581	This implies a salinity input to the Mediterranean Sea that may influence the intermediate and deep water formation processes and, consequently, the hydrological characteristics of the Mediterranean Waters.
8582	This implies that the variable costs of all these means of transport would rise if the variable external costs were passed on to users.
8583	This includes force feedback control of two arms maintaining relative position to each other.
8584	This includes the evaluation of the PICOS Platform Design and Architecture v1, the PICOS Platform Prototype v1 and the PICOS Angling Community Application Prototype v1, from a legal, economic, technical and usability point of view.
8585	This includes when you might be turning, braking, stopping and accelerating.
8586	This industry is driven by innovation, by science, and, most importantly, by the health needs of people.
8587	This, in fact, is the 1st from a series … FI Business in collaboration with AngelNews brought 11 selected EU startups to exclusively pitch in front of top notch investors from the UK during The Great British Private Investor Summit 2015.
8588	This information has to be provided (filled in) by the notifying party (the authorised person).
8589	This interdepartmental program is administered in the Department of Statistics and provides a core training in computing, mathematics, operations research and statistics, with opportunities for further elective work and specialization.
8590	This internet resource offers a variety of generic pills.
8591	This interview reflecting the ongoing SEPA migration project of the dance and gymnastics school Girlfriends has been translated from German into English.
8592	This in turn reflects decision-makers’ impatience or time preference - the degree to which they prefer to receive benefits in the present rather than the future.
8593	This in turn will be linked to cost especially for the developing countries.
8594	This invaluable volume provides just what is needed.
8595	This involves a personal statement incorporating the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check (previously CRB check) and health disclosure.
8596	This is achieved through the development of integration tools as well as scientific and industrial applications for grids and clouds.
8597	This is a common critique that always leaves me puzzled.
8598	This is a CONTINUATION with more to go until we have nothing left.
8599	This is a fulfillment of a mandate given to Adam in Genesis 1:28 “fill the earth and subdue it.”
8600	This is Alan Watt standing in for John Stadtmiller, and I think we've got Chuck in California on the line.
8601	This is a legal principle firmly anchored in Article 4(2) TEU.
8602	This is all at a concentration which is unique in Austria.
8603	This is all we can remember for thousands, a couple of thousand years.
8604	This is also relevant for public procurement in the following chapter and it is also mentioned in Annex VI of Article 8 on energy audits.
8605	This is always difficult.
8606	This is a massive science, incredible science.
8607	This is a merit system.
8608	This is a mistake as providing them as much meaningful and accessible information as possible would allow them to feel more involved in their healthcare.
8609	This is an absolute priority for the European trade union movement" While welcoming the investment plan, we are sceptical about whether its emphasis on private funding is going to deliver the money.
8610	"This is an area we maybe need to think about a little more seriously."
8611	This is an article from the Telegraph.
8612	This is an example of a second-best argument, that we should defend the introduction of an ineffective scheme because it helps to address the wasteful use of resources caused by an even worse scheme.
8613	This is an FP7 project.
8614	This is an incorrect o-ring size.
8615	This is an inspiring moment in time and I feel privileged to be part of the Erasmus Mundus Programme, where I have the opportunity to acquire new knowledge, expand my networks and build my dreams in order to work for a better world.
8616	This is an interesting result, taking into account that the user base generally acts anonymously and is spread all over the world.
8617	This is an investment in unity and this is how Europe remains competitive.
8618	This is an issue where there are very deeply held convictions on all sides, but it is also an issue that illustrates some of the main concerns people have with European law.
8619	"This is another great day for Danville, Pittsylvania County and Virginia," said Delegate Danny Marshall, a member of the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission.
8620	This is a novel approach that has huge transformational potential for the area of turbulence studies and very likely for other forced dissipative dynamical systems as well.
8621	“This is a process that particle physicists have been trying to find for 25 years,” says CMS spokesperson Joe Incandela.
8622	This is a right choice for the context of China and for the progress of the Chinese society.
8623	This is a special preset which reflects EPSO's new practice of focusing more on verbal abilities for translators and less of numerical skills.
8624	This is a unique opportunity to network, get to know your business partners and enjoy an excellent team building experience.
8625	This is a very useful tool for informing students and getting them interested in the topic of sustainable energy.
8626	This is because no new local wood using industries have been established in the area.
8627	This is becoming more important as demand cycles are shortening and as ‘Made in Europe’ is becoming a selling point.
8628	This is done by exchanging best experiences, developing, sharing and improving new methods and through networking.
8629	This is essential for the transatlantic alliance.”
8630	This is exactly where the energy industry plans to build the next hydropower plants.
8631	This is fighting talk.
8632	This is for the Irish market.
8633	This is from the Times, as they’re after the sea.
8634	This is from The Wise Up Journal.
8635	This is going to create an atmosphere of fear and panic, and no financial system can operate normally when you destroy the confidence that people have in it.
8636	This is great for someone like me, who has spent several years in industry before returning to academia.
8637	This is important, as both types of investment products are sold to retail customers.
8638	This is important because during the debate every participant will try to pull the conversation where he wants to and the moderator is more likely to favour the “big names” and ask follow-up questions that move the conversation in their direction.
8639	This is important for interoperability with EGIThe current monitoring and accounting mechanism should be able to reflect the dynamic provisioning of VMs once the Cloud service is in place at site.
8640	This is indispensable support for the most vulnerable victims of the Syrian crisis; without support like that of the European Union, they risk becoming a 'lost generation'.
8641	This is labor, you see, where you’ve been sponsored into the country by the corporation that needs you.
8642	This is likely because companies have a hard time knowing what was stolen, among other complex issues that keep surveys, reports and studies from being accurate.
8643	This is no game folks.
8644	This is of course predicated upon the priesthood’s capacity to maintain its position of monopoly on economic witchcraft by ensuring that only economists are listened to and that only economists can understand their own sacred texts.
8645	This is of particular importancefor the functioning of damages actions, ensuring common minimum guarantees all across the EU while leaving to the Member States the choice of the most appropriate tools to do so.
8646	This is often pinpointed as a shortcoming of the legislative process.
8647	This is one of the countries with a triple A rating and if the credit rating problem goes deeper of these major donors with first class rating, the lowest risk, then these rescue funds will become riskier.
8648	This is one of the important professional issues for the teacher.
8649	This is one of the many strengths of V-REP!
8650	This is one to watch with interest.
8651	This is only one part of everyday, social life, not to go beyond and further to political and economic issues.
8652	This is particularly relevant given the Fidesz government’s campaign against migrants.
8653	This is particularly the case of the data considered from the first EU wide survey on violence against women implemented by the Fundamental Rights Agency.
8654	This is particularly true for the employing companies.
8655	This is private sector debt so doesn’t show up in the public debt figures you quoted.
8656	This is prompted by the signs of global recovery after years of crisis and uncertainty, and a number of deals involve both Europe’s Single Market and the US market.
8657	This is similar to the reason why human languages are unlikely to change rapidly through generations.
8658	This issue: Focus on Science The bycatch of small cetaceans – dolphins and porpoises – continues to be a problem in a number of EU fisheries.
8659	This issue includes summary of Expert Meeting on Guillain-Barre Syndrome.
8660	This Issue Paper by Rosa Balfour and Antonio Missiroli argue that changes to the ENP are now needed to narrow the gap between the goals it sets and the expectations it raises, on the one hand, and the results and outcomes it can deliver, on the other.
8661	This is supposed to be a mere formality, and no major changes are supposed to be made in this phase.
8662	This is taught by another religion.
8663	This is the case of the Orccad/Maestro initiative at Inria, which is a software integration environment for the design and validation of complex robotic tasks.
8664	This is the first book of The Fellowship of the Ring.
8665	This is the form of scientific dictatorship that Bertrand Russell and others talked about.
8666	This is the guy who writes fictional histories, if things had turned out that way in World War I, it’d be a different world, and he goes into the kind of world it would have been.
8667	This is the highlight div class.
8668	This is the most dramatic image that I kept in my memory after 89. When I worked as a journalist, I researched whom she was, and now I know.
8669	This is the most specialist year of your degree, allowing you to utilise your expertise and gain the experience that will stand you in good stead when entering industry or pursuing further study.
8670	This is the reason why the Federal German Government is actively pursuing a national raw materials policy.
8671	This is the result of the desire to create one single purchase order, one single invoice etc, for the whole world.
8672	This is the society they want to bring in.
8673	This is the value Solver will attempt either to maximise or minimise.
8674	This is the workspace for the Article 13a Expert Group.
8675	This is to facilitate the sharing of experience on a scale proportionate to the distribution of air pollution (regional level) and to coordinate the development and implementation of the planned actions (local level).
8676	This is true in many instances in modern art, where artists seek for ugliness just in order to express their hatred against traditional values, and in the deepest sense, against the God whose creation they knowingly detest.
8677	This is usually achieved through the power of analysis and panel debate.
8678	This is what the Union needs to do in order to be able to rise to the challenges facing it by 2030."
8679	This is what was so interesting and destructive about the Global Minotaur’s reign: the greater the instability that it was cultivating behind the scenes the more convinced the elites were becoming that a crisis had become impossible.
8680	This is where Romania can play a major role, becoming an infrastructure hub that will attract economic growth, due to the facilities offered by the Constanta maritime port and the Danube transport channels.
8681	This is why we need a serious and grown-up debate on the priorities and ways of spending the granted funds within the scope of this next seven-year-old project.
8682	This joint position paper expressed our views on possible future RFID scenarios and their impact on consumers, mainly focusing on RFID applications such as electronic tags (e-tags) in distribution/retail, in transport, payment services and counterfeiting.
8683	This just cannot continue.”
8684	This kind of regular mechanism is known as a Note that the machine performing the cron does not need to be the same machine that is running Moodle.
8685	This latter risk is low, however, if it exists at all.
8686	This layer controls the multiple technology gigabit network and provides services as well as connectivity to any number of devices in any room of the house or flat.
8687	This learning is indispensable to counter-balance the decision-making independence of NRAs.
8688	This led him to enquire about Incinerator Bottom Ash (IBA) in the 1990s and to forming Ballast Phoenix Ltd in collaboration with Feniks Recycling from Holland, who had experience of processing the IBA into aggregate.
8689	This led to the announcement of several new environmental policy initiatives, namely, Environment and Health Action Plan (E&HAP), Environmental Technologies Action Plan (ETAP) and the Thematic Strategy on the Urban Environment (TSUE).
8690	This library provides an efficient and easy way to harness multi-core processors,” Dell said.
8691	This list includes, inter alia, situations where the domain name holder is commonly known by the name corresponding to the Domain Name.
8692	This loveless and bloodless existence led to… but that would spoil the end.
8693	This major break-through was achieved because the Party of European Socialists (PES), PES Women and ECOSY worked together at all levels to get your voice heard.
8694	This marks a shift in orientation of Polish managers, starting to appreciate the importance of knowledge and innovations.
8695	This may be an interesting exercise but often doesn’t lead to anything apart from four lists that are filed away and forgotten.
8696	This may be due to a favourable role of fibre, but the issue is still open to discussion.
8697	This may be problematic within friendships as secrets seemingly shared in confidence are revealed unwittingly to the wrong person or abuse comes from an unexpected area.
8698	This may still be useful when discussing the coherence of international law.
8699	This means all EU banks will undergo an evaluation of their business model and an assessment of their risks to capi- tal e.g. interest rate risk in the banking book.
8700	This means that Greece is no longer a net burden for its lenders.
8701	This means that not all actors in the financial system should be regulated in the same way and with the help of the same measures.
8702	This means that one has to be aware of all the costs connected to farming and that one must critically look at all the available options before deciding to spend money on an activity as this could have an effect on the profits, negatively or positively.
8703	This means that the repositories cover a high percentage of the universities production as bibliographic descriptions, but have few OA full texts.
8704	This means watching up to eight+ hours of HD videos on a single charge1.
8705	This meant that from that time, the IAEA had to negotiate its access to the country with Pyongyang and that future IAEA verifications became hostage to the bilateral relationship between North Korea and the United States.
8706	This measure is part of a set of..
8707	This meeting was the first time that EU NAVFOR has engaged with representatives of local Somali fishing and coastal communities under the Somali Seafarers Initiative (SSI).
8708	This method is widely used in industry to write programs and model them.
8709	This methodology aims at identifying first tangible measures in order to implement them successfully in the short term.
8710	This missile network is offensive and not defensive in intent and motivation.
8711	This mobile testbed approach has been used for a series of internal experiments described in deliverable D6.2.
8712	This modality is also suitable for patients treated on out-patient basis.
8713	This monitoring makes it possible to modify the project during implementation if it is deemed necessary based on the results of the monitoring.
8714	“This movement is not only symbolic, but indeed really important, as cohesion policy is crucial for Europe, its regions and its citizens”, President SABBAN said.
8715	This need was also stressed by Ms.
8716	This network can be accessed by all not centrally managed computers, both private or FBK owned, provided they comply with the minimum security measures under Legislative Decree n. 196/03.
8717	This new BG3 test capability – the industry’s first – is now available as a standard feature in all Ellisys WiMedia test products to supplement Ellisys’ existing WiMedia Band Group 1 test functionality.
8718	This new brochure was produced and used as part of a school project in Salzburg, Austria to improve the understanding between the generations.
8719	“This new funding is another sign of our commitment to stamping out piracy.
8720	This new Healthcare system that they’re bringing in, and actually Rand Corporation did it.
8721	This newsletter reviews the plenary debates and votes once a session has ended.
8722	This NGO support mandate continues to be high on the priorities list of the Country Office, bearing in mind that Romanian government should engage in an open dialogue with the environmental civil society, on matters related to the EU Accession.
8723	This notion is quite different, however, from a ‘business case’ in the classic economic sense of the term.
8724	This objective will be achieved by the implementation of a systematic assessment work plan and will result in the establishment of a harmonised approach and an e-training tool for dissemination.
8725	This open water area may have occurred as a polynya or may reflect a generally reduced sea ice cover of the interior Arctic Ocean.
8726	This overview of the past, present and (possible) future of the US academic technology transfer is a an excellent reference document when reflecting on the operation and objectives of an European technology transfer office.
8727	This panel aims to explore the assumption that it is exactly here – in the processes of power struggle and interest competition – that any de-compartmentalisation would materialise.
8728	This paper is devoted to investigating botnets, which realize their expansion by network worm propagation mechanisms and perform attacks like “distributed denial of service” (DDoS).
8729	This paragraph will first describe how the different levels of the network are being funded as funding is the most important enabling tool there is.
8730	This part of women patients increases all the time.
8731	This piggy loves to jam.
8732	▲ This pipe was carved during the "factory period" (before 1964) but it was marked with a green dot which only appeared in 1964 and was continued untill 1967.
8733	This platform will be developed for data generated by industrial CT scanners, also known as 3D X-ray microscopes.
8734	This policy approach can be complemented by certification schemes for properly managed forest resources.
8735	This policy brief proposes ten reforms aimed at breaking the inequality-finance cycle in Europe.
8736	This popular consultation will be the first in the Batavian kingdom in over 200 years; the last one took place in August 1797.
8737	This position is supported by the available kinds of recourse against administrative acts and actions (see answer to question 16).
8738	This powerful book will help to shape the study of parties and elections for years to come.'
8739	This presentation will give an overview of the research on feature modularity and interactions from the perspective of the feature-interaction community.
8740	‘This presents a lost opportunity for EU leaders to meet to discuss in depth the crucial issues which impinge directly on the EU’s labour markets and unemployment levels in today’s context of growing financial uncertainty’ reflected Anne-Sophie Parent.
8741	This prize is granted every year to a "deserving volunteer programme" and provides the winner with the sum of 15'000 Danish kroner.
8742	"This probe looks into old cases we notified the investigation bodies almost 3 years ago, and which relate to offenses discovered by BRD and Societe Generale's internal control services.
8743	This process-based understanding requires a 'mapping' of the problem framing and actors and thus SNA has a high relevance for adaptation.
8744	This process doesn't have to be daunting if a thoughtful approach is taken.
8745	This process is essential for the induction of antigen-specific adaptive immune responses.
8746	This process will be implemented progressively over 6 years from financial year 2015 to financial year 2020.
8747	This product was added to our catalog on 8 stycznia 2014.
8748	This profit is the result of healthy financial policy and a good spread of activities and markets.
8749	This program is one of the driver in the CROSS project in Rome.
8750	This project aims at the development of a complete numerical model for the fracture and further fragmentation of sand cores, used in the manufacturing of aluminum cylinder heads with a predictive numerical modeling.
8751	This project enables to optimise the production of biogas.
8752	This project encourages better design and construction practices that promote passive and active energy efficiency, water efficiency, and environmentally friendly construction materials and techniques.
8753	This project has focussed on how Article 14 of the IPPC Directive is put into practice by assessing the current approaches for compliance promotion, inspection and enforcement of IPPC installations.
8754	This project is represented in: Find out more about SDH professionals in Sweden or click here to get in contact with us.
8755	This project is represented in: In this section, you can find evaluation and calculation tools dedicated to solar district heating allowing opportunity and feasibility studies.
8756	This project's goal is to enhance the expertise of the region Vienna-Bratislava in fields of robotics.
8757	This project will focus on the integrated management of urban sprawl around large cities in different institutional contexts.
8758	This project will study the options available for co-operation on validating any proposals for a Europe wide IN (PEIN) service either on a bi-lateral or multi-lateral basis.
8759	This property should not be confused with the Name property of the Provider element.
8760	This prototype is focused on Picasso’s works.
8761	This proved to be a good decision."
8762	This provides an overview of strategically important national and international scientific facilities under construction in the UK or abroad and details on potential projects for future facilities over the next 10-15 years.
8763	This provides life-saving aid to the victims of disaster disasters, refugees and others in dire need.
8764	This publication is the fourth in a series of open access reports from EuNaMus.
8765	This public consultation, which runs until 6 October 2012, is intended to provide opportunities for input on the state of play of the full biobased industries value chain in Europe, in particular with regard to aspects related to research and innovation.
8766	This public sector information appears to be very useful for the performing of public duties, but also for other purposes: the so-called re-use of government geographic information.
8767	This public sector institution for scientific and technological research, conducting research in the fields of food, agriculture and the environment.
8768	This public space, which seems much larger due to the high ceilings, will be flooded with daylight adding a sense of occasion to the journey.
8769	This puzzle is an NP-Complete problem which means that a very hard problem that is required deep and efficient algorithm to be solved.
8770	This question can only be answered through a review of the facts before the court.
8771	This rate is determined by the texture of the soil, slope, climate, and land use cover (e.g. paved surface, grass, forest, bare soil).
8772	This regionalization could lead to imbalances in NATO, with a mini-alliance of NATO and non-NATO members working closely together in this part of Northeastern Europe.
8773	This report briefly reviews potential bottlenecks and ways to address them through suitable refinement of standing policy.
8774	This report explains how the use case contributes to the SECONOMICS project.
8775	This report explores whether it is possible to have solidarity in a diverse society, in particular seeking to move the debate on from dominant narratives of cohesion and extremism.
8776	This report presents the five scenarios and the findings that have been made throughout the scenario process in the case study area South-East Veluwe (The Netherlands) of the INTEGRAL project.
8777	This requires key core funding not dabbling in and out and should be a feature of all EU national laboratories.
8778	This research is also part of a horizontal task force with other ICT Future Internet projects - such as FIWARE, BUTLER and SOFIA - that deals with building new innovative applications and services for every-day working and living environments.
8779	This research offers useful examples for the management of the lagoon environment, transforming, when possible, the threats triggered by the global change into opportunities through effective adapting actions.
8780	This resource describes a slice in the testbed, including its slivers with API URIs to navigate to them.
8781	This result clarified conflicting earlier reports on the social organization of this species.
8782	This result is particularly promising in the light of the 190 vehicles registered over the whole of 2013 and when also taking into account that the price reduction will continue to be available until the end of February 2014.
8783	This result was particularly remarkable, given that it was achieved only a few weeks after Kosovo’s declaration of independence.
8784	This retnal greatly reduce the physical requirements but at the washinngton of speed, since two levels of page faults may occur to get at an actual process page (one for the secondary paging tables then one for the process page).
8785	This right shall include freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart information and ideas without interference by public authority and regardless of frontiers..
8786	This risk assessment was carried out at the request of the European Commission, and in collaboration with the European Food Safety Authority.
8787	This schedule has been communicated and is binding upon the operators (inspection precept).
8788	This second threat echoes tactics that Moscow has used most recently against Ukraine, as well as Georgia during the height of outgoing Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili’s anti-Russian rhetoric.
8789	This section provides you with an introduction to the key topics our association is currently involved with.
8790	This seems rather incredible to people today when we see all these little snippets coming in through newspapers to do with genetic engineering, yet no one asks why so much money and time and government grants have gone in that direction.
8791	This seems to imply that the admissibility has only to be ascertained with reference to the entity against which the application was originally directed.
8792	This service is funded by the European Commission's FP7 Capacities Specific Programme and is free of charge.
8793	This session featured presentations on the role of folate and LC-PUFA intake during pregnancy and later mental development.
8794	This session is an introduction to how the media can..
8795	This session will discuss the role of AAL technologies and design-for-all for the creation of age-friendly environments.
8796	This session will give insights into practical experience with the entire value chain of big data in Smart Cities, starting for the data acquisition over architecture for distributing data to visualizing data for different stakeholders.
8797	This shall not be held to mean that the State shall not in its enactments have due regard to differences of capacity, physical and moral, and of social function.
8798	This should be achieved by accelerating the market uptake of a..
8799	This should be done by, among other things, enhancing demand side integration and operating reserve demand curves.
8800	This should be sent to the secretariat of the independent expert: Special Procedures Division / OHCHR Anke Stock / anke.
8801	This should just be the start of EU funding to tackle youth unemployment.
8802	This show has just blasted past us.
8803	This shows that we are not a recent acquaintance.
8804	This significant milestone was celebrated with a special visit of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice President of the European Commission Federica Mogherini, to Beijing on 5th and 6th May.
8805	This site is not one social network but a platform which allows users to setup their own ones.
8806	This small forest animal developed over millions of years and gradually changed its physical appearance into the modern horse.
8807	This social housing complex has 41 4-storey buildings, a hamman, shops (bakery, bar …), social assistance and security offices.
8808	This "special state of mind" was a plasticity of the initiate that the priests could bend and manipulate to their own ends; just as the Old Man of the Mountain manipulated the Assassins.
8809	This state of matter existed in the first second after the Big Bang and is currently being produced in collisions between heavy ions (gold or lead) at CERN and Brookhaven.
8810	This step is generally your risk of diabetes a genteel traveling basket.
8811	This strategy of a Euro-Mediterranean Innovation Space (EMIS) could be part of the policy of the EU in developing an Innovation Policy for Europe.
8812	This study presents possible solutions in Economic efficiency analysis: Of course, the insulation and thermal refurbishment of build- ings to meet passive house standards is not without its costs.
8813	This study thus provides a fresh insight into Chinese speakers’ English and contributes to ELF research at large.
8814	This technology and knowledge is also useful in other applications at home and at work.
8815	This technology has the potential to provide cost-effective therapies and to address the needs of an ageing population which likewise impose a high socio-economic burden presently.
8816	This technology not only gave the TS040 Hybrid superb performance, but also reduced fuel consumption by a staggering 25% compared to the 2013 car.
8817	This tells you there's a plan already made, obviously, since the Kissinger's / the Brzezinski's are always right.
8818	This theme also includes policies supporting the actual delivery of innovation in regional innovation chains, particularly in the areas of ‘smart specialisation’.
8819	This then became the chief objective of his political commitment which in 1962 led him to propose a True Atlantic Community, a first step towards a true Atlantic federation between democracies and, eventually, a world federation.
8820	This ties right in with that article I read the other day.
8821	This tight result led the two parties to say they had won the election.
8822	This time our Talking Cityzen is Manu Fernandez, independent strategic urban thinker and designer of innovative urban actions.
8823	This tool is for non-commercial use.
8824	This tour was particularly appropriate as they were the first Serbian band to play in Knin, Croatia after the 1991-95 war.
8825	"This town needs an enema!
8826	This trend is the result of the increased openness of EU countries towards sourcing in DCs.
8827	This trick makes use of what the official specifications call "attribute selectors".
8828	This type of certification is not given to just any medication.
8829	This type of cooperation had already started during FP3.
8830	This vessel is neither impressive nor outstanding in its construction, though its exterior really makes you appreciate the bravery of the navy seals who climb aboard!
8831	This video explains how the project, which looks at decarbonising the air around..
8832	This vision has been part-developed in the LAP and is explained in the following way: “Children and young people learn without borders – they exploit and develop their resources and potentials to as high a degree as possible.
8833	This was a new problem: the question had never arisen because electric utilities had been vertically integrated.
8834	This was a response to a request by the France Grilles funders to assess the scientific activity based on grid resources and to measure its impact.
8835	This was foreseen in the 2009 Directive – on a voluntary basis – and the mechanisms were further developed by the Commission in guidance on public intervention in the internal energy market last year.
8836	This was how it was in those days for our sector: a relatively unstructured and amateurish approach to cooperation between service providers throughout Europe.
8837	This was not a bad thing given how much NATO had been through over the past decade while facing growing opposition to the use of force from most European publics.
8838	This was not in the least karma yoga.
8839	This was something the Greens initially objected to, as they wanted Parliament to accept responsibility itself rather than pass it on to the people.
8840	This was stated by President Traian Basescu, who stressed that the two states have already agreed on everything.
8841	This was the first move towards the creation of what is now known as the European Union – 27 countries united in their respect for freedom and the rule of law while recognising and valuing the diversity of EU citizens.
8842	This was the first of a series of sessions for exchanging views with the European Commission aiming at supporting the Commission in its undertaking for the legislative review, in the context of the Digital Single Market (DSM).
8843	This was the first well-attended Games for Change meetup to be held in the UK, with some participants traveling from as far as Sheffield and Doncaster in the north of England who expressed interest in hosting meetups “up North.”
8844	This was the time Larry Lessig was in residence in Berlin, so it must have been more or less June 2004.
8845	This was truly a week in which the famed double helix of preserving and giving access to audiovisual heritage, as Peter Kaufman so eloquently put it once, was at the heart of the conversation.
8846	This way, the relationships between the geometric property of a walking human and the camera parameters are made more explicitly, and more clear to see.
8847	This website draws together resources on the topic.
8848	This week gives you the chance to learn more about our accessibility-related activities in areas such as Design for All, lifts, assistive technologies, car-adaptation, railways and many others.
8849	This week was the first-ever visit by a Chinese Chief of Staff, General Chen Bingde (A: Strange name for a Chinaman.
8850	This wide-ranging and innovative deal is a benchmark for what we want to achieve in other trade agreements", said Commissioner De Gucht.
8851	This will allow them to gather vital information on both the strength of the immune responses triggered by the vaccine and vaccine safety.
8852	This will be achieved through different steps: “We invite medical and veterinary entomology laboratories from the participating countries to join us and to take part in this network.
8853	This will be essential to protecting the current and future generations of Roma in the Czech Republic, and across the EU, where they continue to face routine discrimination.’
8854	This will be shortly followed by the G20 summit in Mexico and a European Council meeting in Brussels in June.
8855	This will be the launch vehicle for the Galileo network of satellites – rivals to the American GPS system – the first of which will be in orbit by spring 2006.
8856	This will ensure that DRIVE C2X’s impact assessment of C2X technologies represents the system that is promoted by the C2C-CC.
8857	This will however demand projects to adopt a clear focus not only on their own regions/partners but also on their potential for other regions and EU policy level, which is currently not an objective of INTERREG IVC projects.
8858	This will open the Open With submenu as shown piccolo vs frieza final form the image below.
8859	"This will ultimately allow also consumers to distinguish between legal and illegal caviar products."
8860	This will verify the sensitivity of safety monitoring code to transient faults and extend the range of fault types covered.
8861	This work is part of the joint research project BelAmI of Fraunhofer IESE, the University of Kaiserslautern, the University of Budapest, the University of Szeged, and the Bay Zoltan Research Foundation, Budapest.
8862	This workshop will be focussed on "Nanomedicine in Oncology" from the 26th to 29th of September 2012 in Berder Island, France.
8863	This would allow fuel consumption to be more accurately projected and a larger share of efficiency benefits to accrue to ship owners, thus increasing the return on investment in fuel-saving technologies.
8864	This would encourage users to choose the least damaging vehicles, routes and modes, to only make trips that deliver net benefits to society, and to use existing infrastructure capacity more efficiently.
8865	“This would give another boost to the road transport sector while we should be organising a modal shift to more sustainable transport like railways and inland waterways,” he said.
8866	This would hardly be possible, if only for the duration of the sittings: On a typical session day, the sitting often begins at 9:00 in the morning (or even earlier) and lasts until 23:00 at night.
8867	This year, also Mr Antonio Tajani, the Vice President of the European Commission and Commissioner for Industry and Entrepreneurship as well as Ms Inés Ayala Sender, Member of the European Parliament, attended the CLEPA Technology Day.
8868	This year, Design At Large, a section of the fair dedicated to large-scale works, dealt with 20th and 21st century architecture, with famed real-estate magnate, hotel entrepreneur and collector André Balazs, as guest curator.
8869	This year Rilling will conduct a concert performance of Fidelio with the last-named ensemble on 14 September.
8870	This year, we also welcome the contribution of the women personnel in humanitarian operations and ask special attention for the specific security threats women face.
8871	‘t Hofbrouwerijke was born.
8872	Thomas Langø is a Senior Research Scientist and Project Manager (since 2002) for navigation and ultrasound imaging in laparoscopic surgery.
8873	Thomas W. Hunter, Attorney at Law, amalgamates broad knowledge of the lawful issues and court dealings with an elevated weight on accessibility to their clients.
8874	Thorisson’s cook book then seventh child, often called audrey, both entered before the fall, pandora beads sale thorisson’s preference year.
8875	Those are the ones that need help.
8876	Those are the policies of fascists and banana republics…” Exactly.
8877	Those category 3 substances that could potentially be used as ingredients in cosmetic products must have undergone an extensive risk assessment and evaluation by the SCCP before they may be used.
8878	Those in favour of the "yes" vote did not think it necessary to campaign at the time.
8879	Those in lower-lying areas benefit from mountain zones as well.
8880	Those of us who believe that diversity, tolerance and mutual respect are at the heart of cohesive cities have as responsibility to set an example in whatever way we can.
8881	Those who are offended must look to themselves and ask why.
8882	Those who do reach Europe often suffer ill-treatment from border guards and are unlawfully sent back to their countries.
8883	"Those who voted for me voted for change.
8884	Though the people living here are not rich and suffer from many problems, they still think that the church protects them.
8885	Though the UK joined the EU about 40 years ago, its membership has always been a key topic in national politics.
8886	Three good practices were selected for so-called 'sensing journeys' - study visits which allow us to explore the approaches that make a difference in the lives of individuals and transform communities.
8887	Three levels of dialogue are foreseen, including: (1) Rule of Law Initiative meetings on ministerial level, (2) technical workshops at regional level for the identified priority areas, and (3) national level dialogue on legal and judicial reform.
8888	Three main dimensions are being explored: Beyond a “simple” exchange of experiences, Culture for cities and regions will ensure a real impact and a meaningful transferability of local practices.
8889	Three of Octopux Consulting’s training courses will be delivered until the end of 2013 to a large community of entrepreneurs areas covering the following: Introduction to EU Funding: Grants and Tenders, EU Lobbying in Brussels and Horizon 2020 for SMEs.
8890	Three reasons are conceivable.
8891	Three solar district heating plants participate in the competition.
8892	Through a lot of information campaigns, press meetings, public relations and workshops the project team tried to convince house owners to implement these combined systems.
8893	Through iCity Platform, and interacting with opened city Information Systems, IT Partners (Information Technology Partners) develop apps that provide services for citizens.
8894	Throughout Antonescu’s entire regime, many legionaries were detained in Aiud, along with others, most of them young, many former leaders of Blood Brotherhoods.
8895	Throughout his tenure at both venerable houses, he displayed little interest in the commercial side of the fashion business.
8896	Through the informed consent process, researchers provide potential and enrolled participants with information about the clinical study.
8897	Through these activities Griffies has developed an international platform for discussing and validating the results of the ocean modelling community, in which his leadership is unequivocal.
8898	Through the website on their smartphone or on a computer, beekeepers can share information about the health of their bees.
8899	Through this Expert Facility, eligible applicants from..
8900	Through this form a comma-separated value (*.
8901	Through this project, eight Turkish selected local authorities were subject to increase their capacity and vision in terms of knowledge and good practices.
8902	Through this website you are able to link to other websites which are not under the control of ECD.
8903	Through years of experience we have the best contacts for shipping and permits.
8904	Thursday, 28 January 2010 IEEP quarterly newsletter: Winter 2010 - Keeping CoolThe EU need not be embarrassed by a reputation for being a global leader on climate change - there is a political record to support such flattery.
8905	Thursday’s (9 September) Conference of President’s meeting decided to suspend a proposed Parliamentary Delegation visit to Tehran.
8906	Thus, a commercial vehicle include nowadays a platform for time-critical embedded control-units (engine control, ADAS, highly automated vehicles), a platform for entertainment (navigation and multimedia) and even a platform for smart phones communication.
8907	Thus ERCIM offers important opportunities for building personal networks that connect research, industry and the rest of society.
8908	Thus far, predictions on species occurrences have been based exclusively on how niche conditions shift to higher latitudes and altitudes.
8909	Thus has radio emerged strengthened and more prosperous from each of these 'radiomorphoses', even though some people had predicted its demise.
8910	Thus if your project number is XXXXX-CP-1-2008-1-XX-XXX, you should use the 2008 forms.
8911	Thus it truly needs you to leave your keys of the home to someone and trust them that they will take care of your dog while you are away.
8912	Thus, policy makers who want to enable environmentally friendly consumer behaviour should take all relevant factors into account and address them in a coherent way.
8913	Thus the design should not fa..
8914	Thus the time varying information from several critical regions will be available for data initialisation and/or early verification at a much faster delay time.
8915	"Tied to the bad policy-making problem is the gloomy reality of extreme gender imbalance in both EU and national decision-making systems.
8916	Till then, you will find a non exhaustive list of the publications made since the 1st january 2011 on the HAL open archive.
8917	Time and date: 13-16 October 2011 Share this event with your friends The European venue for Green ideas The Green European Journal seeks to provide a space for European-level debate among Greens.
8918	Time Based Separation (TBS) provides a consistent time spacing between arriving aircraft in order to maintain runway approach capacity, no matter the headwind conditions.
8919	Tips for low cost flights to Turin Book your flights to and from Turin Caselle airport at the best rates using the search engine below.
8920	Tisséo has designed a 5-step methodology for workplace mobility planning which includes: Diagnostic – Inquiries – Validation of the Action Plan – Calendar and Action Scheduling – Evaluation.
8921	Title: Choose as few words as possible to describe the contents of the paper adequately.
8922	Title I of the Statute and Article 64 thereof shall in any case apply to the specialised courts.
8923	Tito took this action to compliment a decision he made a year earlier in 1944, when he commissioned the creation of a brand-new South-Slavic language he Christened "Macedonian" language.
8924	Tivo The Tivo Logo A cialis cost at cvs Very Related Trial Period Ending In.
8925	TLC, Column Chromatography, HPLC, GC, and different Seperation Techniques etc.
8926	To achieve these objectives, she intends to focus on mobilisation of investments, better economic governance, a re-launch of the social dialogue and proportionate common European rules.
8927	To achieve this is our top priority.
8928	To allow citizens direct access would multiply the caseload and require a far-reaching overhaul.
8929	To assure the correct playback of an audio-visual work, one will need the right playback equipment.
8930	To attach a lens to a lensboard, carefully unscrew the rear lens assembly from the shutter by turning it counterclockwise.
8931	To attract wave upon wave of capital from Europe, Japan and the oil producing nations, the US had to ensure that the returns to capital moving to New York were superior to capital moving into Frankfurt, Paris or Tokyo.
8932	To avoid the problem of students automatically getting 100% by simply checking all of the answers, it is best to include negative answer weights for wrong answers.
8933	To be able to obtain a highest possible capacity various strategies and techniques are applied.
8934	To be part of our team, please check for EASO vacancies.
8935	To be provided if 'Yes' has been answered to 'CoastalAreas' and/or 'GroundWaterSources'.
8936	To buy a firearm in the United States, you must complete a background check through the National Iish Check System.
8937	To change the holder of the domain name (if the registrar remains the same): Please contact your registrar to find out how to change the holder of your domain name.
8938	To circumvent this issue, our framework proposes to bind collection rules with application forms.
8939	To claim, as has the Madrid president, that the Spanish fiscal system is “twice as damaging” for his region as it is for Catalonia, is a farce.
8940	To coincide with her decision, DG Agri has published a glossy report entitled ‘Agricultural and rural policy under Commissioner Mariann Fischer Boel’.
8941	To complete the themes of Annex I, successively more specialized data will follow.
8942	To contact us, please use the form provided on the contact page.
8943	To coordinate these many decen- tralized generation units, a so-called smart grid or virtual power plant will be required.
8944	To date only about 12% of known copper resources have been mined.
8945	To date our knowledge has been limited by a number of factors including that it has been difficult to obtain any qualitative and quantitative due to the clandestine nature of the crime.
8946	To date the widely accepted view is that there are many unanswered questions on the potential environmental and health risks associated with the manufacture, use, distribution and disposal of nanomaterials.
8947	Today almost anyone can collect and make accessible digital data, mainly because the technology exists and is affordable.
8948	Today, even after centuries of scientific empiricism, the world’s major religions are as active as ever, continuing to speak profoundly to their believers’ self-conception and ways of living.
8949	Today I want to share with you my impressions about Tallinn.
8950	Today, more than fourteen years after Ericsson became its major shareholder; ENT is an expert centre in the field of information and communications technology and a significant constituent part of Ericsson in the market unit Central Europe.
8951	Today's Bruges has a population of about 45,000 people (the old centre) or 120,000 people (centre together with the suburbs).
8952	Today, scientists, artists and and diverse groups of professionals somewhere in between the two, are taking inspiration from nature in a serious way.
8953	Today, tabloids are present in every democratic country in the world with the exception of the Mediterranean countries, where their function seems to be performed by sports newspapers.
8954	Today, this stunning building serves as an exhibition space for temporary exhibitions.
8955	Today we are visiting look at the basic distinctions between the two kinds, and the numerous perks and disadvantages of both.
8956	Today, we don't have the inter-generational network to pass on this kind of knowledge to the young; in fact, a very good job has been done at separating the generations, so they don't really communicate to each other.
8957	To do so the crisis exit strategy that is being suggested must be affirmed and fine-tuned still further.
8958	To enable a blind person to use a computer and a variety of software almost as efficiently as her normally sighted counterpart, it is necessary that the computer keep her informed on the contents of the screen.
8959	To enable real-time self-management, application level and network level state reporting is employed in our approach.
8960	To enable the reuse of a verified component in different integration environments not only behavior of the component have to be specified but also assumptions on the integration environment.
8961	To ensure consultation with all stakeholders in the value chain, eAccess+ will participate in a wide range of activities such as conferences, industry workshops and trade fairs.
8962	To evaluate the corporate responsibility performance of companies, they were asked to complete a self-assessment questionnaire, which was then analysed by experts in this field.
8963	To expand all sessions within this day, click here.
8964	To explore this issue, we analysed a corpus of over 2.5 billion resources corresponding to the UKWeb domain, as crawled between 1996 and 2010.
8965	Toffler said it in his book too, The Third Wave.
8966	To foster the scientific exchange and discussion of the cases, the posters will be visited by a panel of multidisciplinary experts (including physicians, surgeons, radiologists, pathologists, etc.
8967	To get golden economical and cheap reservation contact immediately at 0207-993-5206.
8968	Together for the low-energy city Växjö, Delft & Grenoble are showing how the local economy can thrive when combining local climate protection actions and implementing sustainable energy solutions in the built envi- ronment.
8969	Together, these five countries produced 70% of the total EU ICT VA.
8970	Together, through their work, they explore the use of textile crafts and electronics as a medium for commenting on technological aspects of today’s “high-tech” society.
8971	Together with their more than 100 subsidiaries and affiliated companies, they employ nearly 90,000 people in Germany.
8972	Together with the strong refusal of secondary use of data for other purposes and dependent on the trust in the organisation, this implies a greater need for security mechanisms to prevent misuse by the organisations.
8973	To get to that point took a less theological image.
8974	To give just one example, AnnoUno (La7, 2014), a talk show involving young people, has been designed as a social-TV programme.
8975	To her, in the regional context nothing else matters than the Croatian national interests.
8976	Token of its desuetude to dinner and facebook page bhari status comedy trampolining is perhaps the.
8977	To know more about it, do not hesitate to contact us.
8978	To learn more about our actions, check out the ‘What can I do?’ section.
8979	To learn more about the project and its results, you can consult the factsheet below.
8980	To learn more about this exciting event, please visit the events section of this site or click on.
8981	To maintain control over their own products and maintain direct links with their customers this latter scenario will be preferable for most publishers.
8982	To manage the volume and complexity, most survey participants use external providers.
8983	To mark this year’s EUSEW forum, EDF has agreed to share its findings to stimulate this crucial debate.
8984	To me, we have to think differently.
8985	Tommorow Tsipras is signing a deal for Greece to participate in the BRICS development bank.
8986	To my mind, this is a crass error of historical perspective.
8987	Tonight too I’ll put up that article, a bunch of articles on – I keep forgetting to do it because it’s really kind of irrelevant.
8988	To now have the name changed from PSYOP to MISO is a slap in the face.
8989	Tony Blair, British prime minister at the time, also argued forcefully for sending in troops to rid the world of the scourge of heroin.
8990	Too, as i discussed earlier, nippon learners have proven to be not so great and it is not easy to help them to get a job who have new producers.
8991	Too a slew of craniates defects, this consume increases the possibility of stillbirth and infant demise.
8992	Too bad it will be in a hellhole.
8993	Too long have companies feared moving to the cloud.
8994	Tools like 3DS-MAX and Navisworks from Autodesk are very suitable for this approach.
8995	Too many people know when what they are being told and having to swallow is bull and goes against their best interests, as has happened today with too, so called, far left policies today.
8996	Too much democracy can create a representation deficit, as occurs when majorities oppress or neglect minorities.
8997	To our knowledge no report provides convincing evidence why this had happened.
8998	Top As SCI results in significant loss of muscle mass, investigators are studying the effect of an anabolic steroid which has been shown to promote gain in body weight and muscle mass after trauma or severe illness.
8999	To Paul Celan in his Todesfuge, death appeared as a maestro from Germany.
9000	To pay by credit card, you must provide some essential information.
9001	Top > FEATURE: High Quality Shooting Keep rolling when the party starts rocking PICSIO’s CMOS image sensor captures JPEG stills at up to 5-megapixel native resolution without interpolation.
9002	Topic: Deriving multilingal lexical and Grammatical Ressources for Opinion Analysis (see announcement, in German) 03-05 Octobre: 3rd Plenary Meeting of TrendMiner in Paris.
9003	Topics covered by the workshop include, but are not restricted to, the following: Please submit a full-length paper through the online submission system.
9004	TopoLT offers all necessary functionalities for fast and easy execution of topographical or cadastral plans, all in a compact and accessible package.
9005	Top rated baby furniture cribs tips and more!
9006	To “propagate” a work means to do anything with it that, without permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a private copy.
9007	To provide the right starting point, the hospital is being equipped with Philips' most advanced MRI and CT scanners, ultrasound systems and patient monitoring solutions.
9008	Torch Centre collaborates with various national organisations and is also very active internationally.
9009	To read the joint letter click here.
9010	To read the trade literature of the PR and online advertising industries is to be hit by a tidal wave of guff about authenticity, engagement and two-way conversations.
9011	To reduce the burden of hepatitis C in Europe, it is essential to promote and expand access to treatment.
9012	To register complete the form below.
9013	To register the new slice select the operation register in the interface User and Slice APIs –> ProtoGeni SA.
9014	To secret bank accounts and escape mansions abroad….
9015	To see who is the moderator of your national forum click on the administrator profile.
9016	“To start your workday every day at seven in the morning and to have such constantly changing schedule… You just have to love it.
9017	To study medicine in Russia it is essential to able to adapt to the climate and culture.
9018	To support these modelling activities, a harmonized pan-European environmental deatabase was developped.
9019	Total GERD has been growing continuously in the last decade: in 2012 the gross domestic expenditure on R&D amounted around €89 per capita, which is an increase by 189.90% in nominal terms from 2002 (expressed in Euro).
9020	To test and to compare the guide with the local realities.
9021	To the right was the room of the concubines.
9022	To the UEF Federal Committee an intergovernmental Europe managed only by the national governments on the basis of the principle of unanimity, has shown its limits preventing the EU from making the necessary choices.
9023	To this end, EFSA developed a new tool to assist EU risk managers in testing different nutrient profile scenarios - a tailor-made food composition database compiled in co-operation with Member States and industry.
9024	To try to restrict this benefit would be a public relations disaster for the EU and nonsensical for the single market and single currency area.
9025	TOURAGE supported senior tourism development in North Karelia The project has contributed to the development of senior tourism in North Karelia and its future prospects in various ways.
9026	To use sociological concepts in description and interpretation of human behaviour and social world Studying of scientific literature.
9027	To view a technical report on Desoxypipradol, visit the link provided below.
9028	Towards a coherent commitment of the EU with local and regional authorities?
9029	To wipe them, please follow those steps: 1. Go to your Desktop and press the Windows key and "R" at the same time.
9030	To: (your friend’s email) From: (your name) Your message: This issue was sent in July 2014 to all subscribers of 100% RES Communities newsletter.
9031	Trace gas emissions from soil and bacterial processes responsible for: a matched approach of field gas measurements, isotopic analyses and modern molecular techniques.
9032	Tradition therefore provides stability for cultural and religious communities, operating as a social binding agent and a symbolic expression of social cohesion, the anchorage of collective and individual identity.
9033	Traffic engineers and research institutes establish the academic groundwork for the measurements and impact assessment.
9034	Traian Basescu is allowing a certain amount of uncertainty to reign about the person he would call upon to form the next government after the parliamentary elections on 9th December next.
9035	Training can be given to candidates willing to learn a new skill set.
9036	Transition énergétique” 15-04-2013 - On 19-20 March 2013 a Franco-German conference on today's energy challenges in both countries took place at the Stuttgart Town Hall.
9037	Transport for London has made it a major policy to introduce and operate green buses throughout its vast bus network.
9038	Travel Insurance, even called as travel medical insurance or travel health insurance can be available from a number of places apart from your travel agent.
9039	Travelling in France is quite expensive but the 12-25 card is a blessing!
9040	Třešňová 5227/17, Ostrava-Třebovice Buying and selling laboratory equipment.
9041	Tricel is a recognised manufacturer and supplier of electrical and gas meter boxes, kiosks and enclosures in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
9042	TRIDENTCOM - 4th International ICST Conference on Testbeds and Research Infrastructures for the Development of Networks..
9043	Trining, the authorization will automatically expire on the due date (without regard to extensions) for filing your 2002 Form 940 (or 940-EZ).
9044	TRITON'S geographic area will be extended southwards as far as the limits of the Maltese search and rescue area, in order to encompass the area that was covered by Mare Nostrum.
9045	True to form, they’re cleaning the phrase as a way to trick.
9046	Trust, inclusive dialogue and collaboration across organizational boundaries are encouraged.
9047	Trust in the system could be established and the inhabitants’ prevailing feedback is that of increased safety.
9048	Try to do it quickly.
9049	Try to follow these steps to make a new contribution: (a) Use Ask to find an annotation of interest (b) Go to the annotation and open in in Pundit (c) Create a new annotation on the same text fragment bringing some new explicit knowledge.
9050	TS-G1032i - 10cm 2-Way Coaxial Speakers (200W) For better-sounding drives.
9051	Tsipras to coalesce with a right-wing party such as Anel has found many opponents, both domestically and internationally.
9052	TTIP will affect a number of areas relating to food and agriculture.
9053	Tuberculosis kills millions of people per year and million more fall ill.
9054	Tuesday, 10 August 2010 00:00 Greece GEORAMA Location: EARS Environmental Agency of Slovenia, Vojkova 1b, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia The 3rd Meeting of DMCSEE took place in Lubljana Slovenia at the headquarters of DMCSEE Leader EARS.
9055	Tuesday, 23 September 2014 New tools and methods to eliminate violence against women How do you improve the European Union?
9056	Tuesday morning is also H. pylori galore and offers an entire symposium on H. pylori-associated gastric carcinogenesis, covering everything on how H. pylori is able to induce gastric cancer.
9057	Tumour aggressiveness was assessed according to M. Brandwein-Gensler.
9058	Tung considers that his success is strongly related to the intense international collaboration and capacity building actions which have been conducted troughout these years with international partners, especially Politecnico di Torino and ISMB.
9059	Tunisia successfully signed bilateral agreements with Italy and France, whereby it promised to control its borders and also take back any undocumented individuals who were expulsed.
9060	Türk Telekom, the leading communication and convergence technology company in Turkey, provides integrated telecommunication services from PSTN and GSM to broadband internet.
9061	Turning to ESS (evolutionarily stable strategies), here we have some more light: There are two such evolutionary equlibria.
9062	Turn left and walk towards Bristol City Centre.
9063	Turn off the vacuum and verify that the cord is.
9064	Turn your current annual income into a monthly income within a year.
9065	Twenty-one out of the 29 candidate substances have been reported to occur in a wide range of food items.
9066	Twenty-three percent of children under 13 reported having a social networking profile, in contrast to 77% 13 and over (see Figure 2).
9067	Twice a year employees‘ children receive a $50 savings bond when they bring in their "all A’s" report card.
9068	Twice test drivers using Siri in a driving simulator rear-ended another car.”
9069	Two days ago, we watched the Wall fall for a second time in Berlin.
9070	Two Design Associates with extensive experience in design support, industry and research engaged with the companies at various points to facilitate the programme’s aims and objectives.
9071	Two experimental “virtual tables”, formed by 3 to 4 e-users located all over Europe, also joined the debate and the polling sessions.
9072	Two further special interest sessions at the ITS Congress were also dedicated to presentation of GSA-funded FP7 projects (see separate article) and the conference also coincided with the visit of the European Space Expo to Dublin (see separate article).
9073	Two new fields added to the Sites table: Updated CDDA data definitions are available in the Reportnet Data Dictionary.
9074	Two of the projects focus on the development of local action plans for energy efficiency.
9075	Two reasons for these purported negative effects have been suggested.
9076	Two statuses are possible depending on your age and educational level: apprenticeship in initial training or continuing education diploma.
9077	Two taco's instead of one should be enough.
9078	Two weeks ago I went to the “Three Cities” on the side of the Grand Harbour facing Valletta.
9079	Two working groups for Boumerdes and three working groups for Sidi Bel Abbes have been also set up to start collecting data for the local BEIs.
9080	Typical delivery times per carrier FedEx Ground.
9081	Typical Oxygen Filling Incidents – Oxygen Incidents in Cylinder Filling Stations A lot has been written in recent years about oxygen hazards, incidents and safety measures.
9082	UAAR had two papers accepted for this premier conference.
9083	UK assistance directory to woodworkers and equipment.
9084	UK competence review on the Single Market Fabian Zuleeg spoke about the Single Market at a lunch hosted by Malcolm Harbour, MEP.
9085	UKIP is different from those parties in two ways.
9086	UK 'least wanted' list published (A: Guess what, it's all the same names that are on this one from Homeland Security.) The names of some of the people barred from entering the UK for fostering extremism or hatred have been published for the first time.
9087	Ukraine currently gets much of its gas from Russia and generates income as a transit country for Russian gas headed to western Europe.
9088	Ukraine has many assets however: it has a high agricultural potential and qualified, cheap labour force.
9089	Ukraine's only protection would be for it to be admitted to NATO as swiftly and urgently as possible.
9090	ULMA offers an integrated service from design and planning of logistics solutions to post-sales service and reengineering, developing everything in conjunction with the client.
9091	Ultimately, it help initiate WW2, so be aware of that.
9092	Ultimately they want research groups and even single researchers to access and efficiently use globally distributed resources.
9093	Ultimo aggiornamento ( Monday 26 January 2009 ) Joomla! is Free Software released under the GNU/GPL License.
9094	Ultrasound, Computer Tomography (CT), X-ray, Services.
9095	UMONS will naturally contribute to research in Task 3.2 (Body and Gesture Recognition), as well as all tasks of WP4 (Data Fusion and Semantic Modeling).
9096	Uncertainty is bad (is it now?
9097	Uncovering regulatory networks are extremely important for live sciences to understand how genes compete and … Gene expression is a complex process controlled by underling biological interactions.
9098	Under Article 5(15) of Decree 59/05, a copy of the permit application and of any related document must be made available to the public at offices defined by the CA and made public by the operator through a newspaper advertisement.
9099	Under certain conditions and in some sectors of activity, in particular severely affected sectors, this rationale of profitability can serve to maintain a certain level of employment; or even create new jobs via the structural reforms.
9100	Under President Martens tireless leadership, the European People’s Party has grown into the largest and most influential group in the European Parliament, and the frontrunner driving force for European integration.
9101	Under SOPA, all of Facebook can be blocked.
9102	Understanding how different illnesses relate to other conditions will have a big impact on the medical profession.
9103	Understanding the dynamics of population behaviour increases the effectiveness of risk communication and management.
9104	Under the 2012 work programme, a total of €53 million is available for research and training in the area of "Nuclear fission, Safety and Radiation Protection".
9105	Under the promise of improving the management and efficiency of cities, the concept of Smart Cities has gained relevance over recent years.
9106	Under this option, as of a defined end date all relevant transactions would have to comply with these "essential requirements".
9107	Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, it skirts round the critical issue of the weak rationale for the current direct payments.
9108	Unfortunately I have to inform you that animal protection is not part of our working remit.
9109	Unfortunately, many of these sites only take your money away.
9110	Unfortunately, the pre-process part of Alya is still sequential.
9111	Unfortunately, there are also cases in which the institution refuses the Ombudsman's proposals for reasons that are not convincing.
9112	Unfortunately, the structures do not currently satisfy legislation covering the sale of foodstuffs, so cannot be used.
9113	Unfortunately, the uploaded videos bes uneven, often resulting in choppy video best hack and slash games ps3 audio, even when you select slsh "medium" quality setting.
9114	Unfortunately we’re stuck here with all of its rules and regulations and the planned agenda.
9115	Unfortunately, when I was in the second year of medicine, they let me go; it wasn’t much of my vocation.
9116	UN House Scotland to open in Edinburgh (A: The infection has spread to Edinburgh with its own United Nations building.) A new centre which aims to become the voice of the United Nations in Scotland is set to open in Edinburgh.
9117	UNICA as ESN's partner will support the project's dissemination.
9118	UNICEF estimates that in the Sahel 300,000 children under the age of five die from malnutrition and related causes every year.
9119	United Kingdom: Under UK rules only SME's are eligible.
9120	United Kingdom What makes it so difficult to engage in new learning spaces?
9121	Universities and investors mutually profit from each other in this way.
9122	Universities undertaking research in sustainable mobility are broadening the knowledge base (e.g. indicators, criteria, recommended procedures) on sustainable transport solutions.
9123	University degree or ongoing studies At least a few months experience/internshi GE-Genève, Conseiller à la Clientèle Entreprises Nous offrons.
9124	University graduates enter the job market as experts of the environment, economics, technology, medicine, education, and culture.
9125	University of Debrecen and Agricultural Research and Development Station Livada organise the closing conference of the project entitled “Effects of climate change and plant nutrition on the carbon cycle of soil-plant system in two long-term..
9126	University of Nottingham, Information Services Information Services at the University of Nottingham has considerable experience in handling major projects and working in the area of Digital Repositories.
9127	Unless of course we are talking about a pan-European self-pleasuring exercise of sorts.
9128	Unless the employer does so voluntarily, parental leave is not paid.
9129	Unless you get out of the Euro agreement nothing is going to change.
9130	Unlike Bauböck, I think the primary responsibility lies with the Slovak government.
9131	Unlike books filled with conflicting guidance or purely anecdotal advice from other parents, this course provides you with a trustworthy, evidence-based perspective to parenting children from their first week home through elementary school and beyond.
9132	U.N. Security Council passes historic resolution to confront Ebola Scientists react to Scottish 'no' vote Ebola economic impacts to hit US$359 million in 2014 iFrames not supported.
9133	Unsurprisingly, campaign launches are often the catalyst behind a cover wrap.
9134	Until all the parties realize where the narrow path serving their combined interests lies.
9135	Until the next Greek crisis; when the solution is yet again more expensive sticking plaster, bail out or restructuring of loans; until the next Greek crisis, and so on.
9136	Until today we’re in a sad state where even close relatives won’t help each other out.
9137	Unwilling to accept the results, she proved ineffective in opposition.
9138	Updated by Simon Templer almost 5 years ago The value for source of name had not been extracted from the cell.
9139	Updated WEX300 applications supporting specification version 1.1 are available on request and are provided at no charge.
9140	Upon reaching the age of 16, the child decides by him/herself.
9141	Upon saving your reaction you will return to the reactions view, and you will see your new reaction in the list on the right.
9142	Up to five additional members may be co-opted to contribute additional expertise to the HMPC.
9143	Up to III there is noob protection, up from IX there is economy and a ton of exp to get in.
9144	URBACT shall not be held responsible for errors or omissions in the content of the blog.
9145	Urban open spaces play a specific role in the city structure design – especially their surface, quality and accessibility.
9146	Urban sprawl contributes to the loss of agricultural land and the increasing percentage of soil sealing, resulting in increasing risks of flood in urban areas.
9147	Urgent actions need to be taken now.
9148	Urgent reforms to root out corruption and restore FIFA's credibility could not begin in earnest until then, it said.
9149	Use a chair you could comfortably sit on for hours.
9150	Use creativity by using different font sizes and styles, perhaps even color and double-space all text.
9151	Used by Biomechanical, Stray, and Lunarmile and others.
9152	Use multiple cameras for total view of your vessels' surroundings.
9153	Use of the information collected: In addition to the purposes stated, the information you provide will be used in accordance with the current Google data protection regulations.
9154	User-requirement specifications are usually developed with consideration of potential risks and form the basis for the first formal risk assessment.
9155	Use the old how bad Europe is for our independent law making as that offensive ‘Human Rights Law’ gets in the way of secret courts and torture, rendition, and the sending of ordinary citizens to jail for seven and eight years respectively without charges.
9156	Use the smallest time possible to finish 10 laps in this b..
9157	Use this Summer Course as an extention on your current studies or apply it immediately to the practice where you are working in.
9158	Using 100 groups of 20 robots, researchers studied the evolution of communication strategies among the robots throughout 1000 generations.
9159	Using a DIY-solution also allows the use of a 20 Ah 36V LiFePO4 battery.
9160	Using advanced statistical methods and information technologies, the JRC develops new concepts and tools that contribute to the protection of the EU budget and the stability of the EU financial system.
9161	Using a unique dataset of German MEPs from 1999-2009 containing candidate list positions as well as personal and behavioral data, I examine the evidence for this hypothesis.
9162	Using netbooks and giving them “away” no reinstallation problems occurs.
9163	Using oil to heat houses is not efficient, environmentally friendly, or economical; neither in the short term nor in the long term.
9164	Using recently recorded current data and historical hydrographic data, an estimate for the mean overflow across the Iceland-Faroe Ridge and its seasonal variability is obtained in this thesis.
9165	Using semantic web technologies, the BnF has managed, in the past four years, to launch a service which has demonstrated encouraging outcomes according to its goals.
9166	Using sensors, the embedded systems monitor and collect data from physical processes, like steering of a vehicle, energy consumption or human health functions.
9167	Using shore connection technology to meet environmental guidelines Ports and the shipping industry are increasingly under pressure to improve their environmental performance and new international regulations are coming into force.
9168	Using smart phones, nurses will be able to communicate with each other and their tutors in real time in the work place and access relevant content just-in–time according to their needs.
9169	Using soils to mitigate carbon emissions A recently published article by IES scientists finds that making alternative uses of arable land..
9170	Using the example of INSPIRE (Infrastructure for Spatial Information for Environment) it shows how cost-benefit aspects are considered at the different steps of data specification development.
9171	Using the 'Horizon Project Voting Tool' we tackled the 12 semifinalists for the report, along with 10 key challenges and 11 key trends.
9172	Using TMG’s motorsport-tuned electric powertrain, driver Jochen Krumbach set a lap time of 7mins 22.329secs, breaking the electric record set by TMG last August by over 25 seconds.
9173	Using used parts, or "green parts" as they are also known, enables you to kill two birds with one stone.
9174	Usually, student loans are especially designed to cover study costs.
9175	Usually the solution can be found in a 'well-known' Internet server with a permanent IP address, which can 'introduce' the other two nodes.
9176	Utrecht has it all.
9177	UWK members are also standing trial on charges of cooperating with the Muslim Brotherhood to “spread chaos” during the Air Defence Stadium incident, which left at least 20 fans killed.
9178	Václav Pecháček - smyčcové nástroje Provides service stringed instruments and bows.
9179	VAPOR complements existing tools (SAM, VO Admin Dashboard, VO Operations Portal, VOMS) with novel services, which main characteristics are described below: Initially, the portal will be used to administrate and operate the biomed VO.
9180	Various prominent experts took the floor, including Ms KORELLA, member of the EU public sector innovation expert group and Ms RODOPLU from UNDP.
9181	Vary: Accept-Encoding Connection: close Knowledge Networking Portal for Sustainable & Responsible Tourism EW » Página inicial » recursos » documents and publications » Tourism Watch 2009 - 2015 All Rights Reserved.
9182	Vary: Accept-Encoding Connection: close Support to practitioners Online guide Important legal notice The most straightforward way of evaluating outcomes is to ask the people involved in the activity to report on them systematically.
9183	Vary: Accept-Encoding Content-Length: 7307 Connection: close Action ES0602: Towards a European Network on Chemical Weather Forecasting and Information Systems (ENCWF) Quick links: content, navigation.
9184	Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent Connection: close Your favourite compact music player.
9185	Vast lawn area around the house for outside activities.
9186	VAT, excl. delivery costs You must select a size before adding to your shopping bag Please, select a size to add the item to your Wishlist Summer shirt to pair with brut denim jeans, light summer trousers or casual bermudas.
9187	VAT for others VoteWatch Europe, the independent organisation which tracks the voting records of Members of the European Parliament and of the Council of Ministers, is pleased to invite you to its EP plenary session debriefing.
9188	VBA Tips - List Files In A Folder m.Free Download Engineering Ebooks Pdf Ppt Lecture Notes.
9189	Vehicle fleet composition is the main technological output, combined with the economic aspects related to investments in technology.
9190	Very often the complexity of the models in question prevents exact calculation of the statistical properties of the methods developed.
9191	Very proud… they had to double that tax base and by God they did.
9192	Very relevant and comprehensive Generally relevant Missing some areas Not relevant 5. Are you generally satisfied with the activities the EBTP is pursuing?
9193	Via: 1.0 www.filmarchives-online.eu Connection: close Přejít na obsah Přejít na navigaci Nacházíte se zde: Úvod → Contribute Are you interested in making your film archives or collection available online via filmarchives online?
9194	Vice-president of OW2 and leader of CompatibleOne, he contribues to the definition and development of open clouds.
9195	Vice-President of the S&D Group Maria João Rodrigues chaired the meeting and stated: ”Europe cannot lose any more time.
9196	Victor hasn’t completing his massive estate in Crimea and needs to return to Ukraine to rape the country of more funds.
9197	Video on major cyber incident reporting in the electronic communications sector Water and wastewater SCADA cybersecurity Water and wastewater SCADA cybersecurity Security patches can impact reliability and safety and people aren’t aware!
9198	Video recording by Food and Agriculture Organisation, and hosting of the video content by VideoLectures.
9199	Videos: Beautiful Langarica at Risk Ulrich Eichelmann (Riverwatch) takes you directly to a natural spring along the Langarica, a tributary to the Vjosa in Southern Albania.
9200	View all 1531 reviews about Academics in United Kingdom View all 74 byreviews written by ESN members View all 51 reviews about The University of Exeter Learn more about studying in Europe!
9201	Viewers are able to post comments and opinions in open dialogue and feedback.
9202	Views, habits and our everyday routine in particular - in a word, everything that makes us believe our work is important and serious - are considered to be a fashion indeed.
9203	View term in another language education or training providerexpandable-toggle Any organisation or individual providing education or training services.
9204	Viktor Orbán is standing up against basic European values: “In my view, the question of the death penalty should be put on the agenda.”
9205	Villkor för försäljning och leverans 1.1 Offers are binding for Imprint for 30 days from the date of the offer. 1.2 Agreement is concluded when the customer acceptance is received by Imprint.
9206	VIM (Flanders Institute for Mobility) Watertrucking: inland maritime shipping with a modern twist PRESS4TRANSPORT Communication Guidelines are out now!
9207	Vinny: You’re a human being, you’re the creature, they are the one with the mirror.
9208	Violence against women survey results presented to German BundestagFRA will present the results of its survey on violence against women on 4 February to the German Bundestag.
9209	Visa facilitation and readmission agreements promote the mobility of the citizens of the eastern partners countries through visa facilitation, and provides rules for managing the return of irregular migrants through readmission agreements.
9210	Vision: AIDGLOBAL believes in a world where all human beings are agents for sustainable development, who work together, guarantee dignity, respect Human Rights, and equally share resources.
9211	Visit Hycon factory outlet today.
9212	Visitors also inspected a Toyota Prius that was on display and more than 1,000 completed the Icy Quiz, winning valuable prizes including a free Prius for a weekend, enabling the lucky winner to experience the hybrid technology.
9213	Visitors will be able to discover interesting places, from a hyenas' den to a Neolithic burial site, with different reproductions of the prehistoric habitat.
9214	Visit University Website Many students visit a university website Master's Programmes at Shintaro Akatsu School of Design Shintaro Akatsu School of Design Many organisations offer scholarships or grants.
9215	Vitorino began to meet individually stakeholders.
9216	Volcano Dig Dug characters Just chea ts you get across the first gap in the level, there will be a group of Cheats de gunblood western shootout Dug characters appearing from a hole.
9217	Vorobiev informed participants about development priorities of the system of local self-government in Leningrad oblast and the legal framework of financial support to the community councils and the elders.
9218	VR was tough, it was my weakest score!
9219	Vysočina succeeded to create communication channels between various partners, local governments and the regional government.
9220	Wait 30 qt426-5 manual, then restart the printer.
9221	Wait a couple weeks in between.
9222	Walk along the rough, ragged ridges of the Supramonte Mountains and follow narrow footpaths through the spectacular Gola di Gorropu gorge.
9223	Walter Frey, President of Toyota AG, personally entered local rallies with Toyota vehicles.
9224	Warhead gives you more explosions, more combat, more vehicles, more weapons and a more cinematic experience - while still allowing stealth and exploration similar to blue holt health book first game.
9225	Warpia, a premier technology brand, is dedicated to delivering advanced connectivity solutions to the mainstream.
9226	Warranty Statement: The minijump starter (battery box) is warranted against defects in electronic malfunction for a period of 1 (1) year.
9227	Was ever all of your what’s right to do?
9228	Was made the analysis how the time of percutaneous coronary intervention dispencing was relative with patients mortality.
9229	Waste Act (1072/1993, amendments): The purpose of the Act is to support sustainable development by promoting the rational use of natural resources, and preventing and combating the hazard and harm to health and the environment arising from wastes.
9230	Watch online videos and TV free.
9231	Watch out for related announcements, events, news, documents and links!
9232	WaterFiltrationandSofteners.com will help you find the right product for your household.
9233	Water quality is a critical factor to public health worldwide.
9234	We adapt to every major change without really consciously thinking about it, or even reflecting on the recent past, or even the remote past.
9235	"We agreed that 1.5 percent of gross domestic product was a necessary figure to launch this recovery plan," Lagarde said, according to Bloomberg.
9236	We aim to produce successful, reflective teachers, sensitive to the demands of pupils, responsive to changes within the education system and committed to their own continuing professional development.
9237	We aim to satisfy our clients at all times with the quality of our service: whether you wish to book 1 or 1.000 overnight stays, we will always try to find a solution that suits you.
9238	We all know how you manipulate Ukraine and media.
9239	We all lose to dominate interests in some aspects of life.
9240	We also have a couple of Paddock Paradise ideas cooking in the oven, but these need a bit more toasting.
9241	We also need to recognise that different military authorities use different national standards.
9242	We also reaffirm our full support to Joint Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi and we call on all parties to cooperate with him.
9243	We also see the potential to increase the scale of automated processing in the SEPA environment compared to the old world.
9244	We also stock a huge variety of gold and silver beads, including, murano glass, enamel, locking, spacer and beads to fit pandora and other beads bracelets.
9245	We also welcome that an obligation for the Commission to establish a priority programme for the development of sectoral reference documents is now included in the text.
9246	We are afraid of Russian capital, however we do not fear the Chinese capital that is dynamically colonising the world today.
9247	We are a full service Moving and Storage company.
9248	We are an open source software project.
9249	We are asking, as Olafur Eliasson put it yesterday, we are asking an effort.
9250	We are at the peak of the American season on hard courts.
9251	We are, at the same time, the architect and builder of your financial safe and warming home.
9252	We are a well established Las Vegas Realtor that can assist you with purchasing a Las Vegas Foreclosure for investment or just to get a good deal.
9253	We are committed to moving it forward and to completing it as quickly as possible.
9254	We are concerned with youth unemployment, which directly ties to Europe’s capacity to innovate and embrace new social and economic configurations.
9255	We are currently working on platform development before we can start to add data and other content.
9256	We are dedicated to providing you with the best possible translation from and into Thai as quickly as possible at the cheapest possible price.
9257	We are delighted to have attained this standard and we will continue to improve wherever possible, year on year,” says Takashi Kuki, President Kyocera Mita Europe.
9258	We are dependent on how quickly the congestion in the south of England has subsided as some of our returning vehicles are stuck in the traffic congestion.
9259	We are expecting to offer an enhanced version of the Hub during the second part of 2012 that will allow members to create their own community groups and to access, and comment on, selected EHRI documents.
9260	“We are experimenting with new EU legislation which allows up to 20% of public contract values to be split and encourages SMEs to bid.
9261	We are facing our first major economic and financial crisis.
9262	We are fed – you know – awful stuff… and kept in the dark.
9263	We are happy to announce that two of the serving EDS Vice-Chairman have been elected Presidents of their respective student organisation.
9264	We are hence called the Original Kočani Orkestar, or King Naat Veliov and the Kočani Orkestar.
9265	We are in a context with a lot of market disruptions, where market liquidity can evaporate quickly because of panic reactions.
9266	We are living in the wonderland of syphilitic crazy people.
9267	We are not aware of cases in which the method for calculating the cost of PSI is fully documented and transparent.
9268	We are particularly concerned about the alarming state of the journalist and psychologist Guillermo Fariñas."
9269	We are specially proud of being recognised and known all through Europe as a high-quality museum.
9270	We are sure that in partnership with OpenPEPPOL and IBM Denmark these tasks will be successfully solved” – states Alexander Sazonov, Deputy Director of Development at NCA Russia.
9271	We are the herd.
9272	We are thus able to compare observationally determined seed shadows with genetically determined seed shadows.
9273	We are told it is a positive thing, but for some it is a negative thing and there is too little involvement from consumer organisations and authorities.
9274	We arrived a little later and a bit more wet in Stopfenreuth – thanks to Laszlo’s and Gabor’s excellent navigation skills.
9275	We as European Greens warn industry and our governments that a trade-off between social and environmental concerns and mining interests is not "sustainable development", but rather a source of destruction.
9276	We bail you out and we are being asked to give you our assets as well.
9277	Web Anti-virus scanner, which will help you quickly scan and cure, if necessary, a computer operated by MS Windows without installation of the Dr.
9278	Webcasts tagged with: conference Conference on Alcohol-Interlocks Feedback is the breakfast of champions.
9279	Web Development Firm that offers professional and affordable website development services, including web programming services and excellent Flash, Php, and E-Commerce web application development to our valued clients.
9280	Web Development, Technology, and E-Commerce Solutions.
9281	We began our journey home at 3 am in the morning on the familiar road to the airport.
9282	“We believe in human rights for everyone — human rights for the child in the womb, the child outside the womb, and true protection and medical care for women.
9283	We believe that accessibility, and namely the Design for All principle, should be taken into account in a systematic matter in the standardisation system.
9284	We believe that decisions in economic governance should be done by reverse Qualified Majority Voting.
9285	Webinars are advertised in advance on our website.
9286	Webinars are upon registration, on a fee basis.
9287	Website also features informative articles by the logo designer.
9288	We call on Johnson & Johnson to remove carcinogenic formaldehyde from its products.
9289	We can already see positive aspects and changes.
9290	We cannot re-write the history books and decide that we have done our job.
9291	We can understand him, given the lengthy and tough negotiations at several summits of the EU or the euro area - probably, positions were changed underway, it was necessary to seek compromises, to think of alternatives and make concessions.
9292	We carry Fishing rods, fishing reels, fishing line, hooks and even a few boats for good measure.
9293	We collaborate with the US TeraGrid to integrate infrastructures across the globe.
9294	We commend UN Women and Justice Rapid Response for their roster of experts specifically trained for investigating sexual and gender-based crimes.
9295	We compare both periods trying to infer the main differences between them in terms of moisture sources (main moisture sources, localizations and intensity) for SESA.
9296	We conduct correspondence with jurisdiction authorities in relation to court proceedings in progress.
9297	We constantly seek to improve our customer experience and offer a great variety of non-fuel products", said Lars Höglund, Senior Vice President, MOL Group Retail.
9298	We cooperate with prominent historians, teachers from within our network and, of course, young people who participate in our history projects and history competitions and give the past close scrutiny.
9299	We deliver auto parts from various brands like Audi, Renault, Dacia, Honda, Opel, Skoda, Peugeot, Toyota and many others.
9300	We describe a simple IR approach for linking news about events, detected by an event extraction system, to messages from Twitter (tweets).
9301	We develop and publish European Standards.
9302	We did consider having a "country of origin" property (see 5.4) but felt that the Formal Identifier class - i.e. the description of the authority that conferred legal entity status - would give this information.
9303	Wednesday, 22 February 2012 12:37 Enhanced Environment Perception and results of Field Operational Tests of Active Safety Systems Dr.
9304	We do consider the V4 cooperation as an important stabilizing factor of the Central European region.
9305	We do know that the World Health Organization sterilized, it actually said millions of women in India and Africa, a few years back, by giving them out, what they claimed were free tetanus shots.
9306	We do not contrast intuitions with scientific knowledge.
9307	We do not want that in Britain.
9308	We don't think consciously through things.
9309	Weed for counsel when theres no www.desi xxx teens.com that war he met with to keep derealization and.
9310	We encourage our employees and contributors to come up with new ideas and take them in consideration.
9311	We end in Delphi, where we visit the Ancient Oracle of Delphi.
9312	“We expect a positive vote” says De Girolamo.
9313	We expect now effective enforcement of the laws and a sustained and credible "track record" of implementation.
9314	We find that increasing the penetration of erratic sources causes the grid to fail with a sharp transition.
9315	We find we come to our conclusions by osmosis, not by reasoning, by repetition, from media and magazines and newspapers.
9316	We focused on “use” rather than the content of online parenting resources.
9317	We had a migration of about 400,000 families moved off their land from massive rains and flooding in the northeast and it seems to be Agenda 21 in motion.
9318	"We have a clear responsibility in planning and coordinating the overall process.
9319	We have also carried out studies on climate mainstreaming in the European Union's budget taking account of opportunities for financing global climate action from the EU budget.
9320	We have a partnership with the USA that puts us in a postion where we don’t need to fear a Russian invasion as even a possibility.
9321	We have designed the most efficient filtration technology, filter media and filter cartridges for all types of dust, fume and mist particulate.
9322	We have documented about the planet Jupiter and its moons, about the forces acting upon them in their motion orbit, about Kepler’s laws.
9323	We have EU battle groups on active service all over the world.
9324	We have group training classesas well as in house one on one training for your dog or puppy.
9325	We have identified pros and cons for every single approach.
9326	We have implemented CamTalk on the Android platform and conducted extensive experiments to evaluate its performance on both Android smartphones and tablets.
9327	We have introduced more binding fiscal rules, brakes on national debt and a robust crisis-resolution mechanism that gives us time to pursue the necessary reforms.
9328	We have investigated various possibilities to accurately measure the queue length and ultimately decided using sensor technology would be the best way.
9329	We have more than 40 clients through out the world.
9330	We have not been taught that from birth.
9331	We have not independently verified the accuracy of that information or of those documents nor have we determined whether they are up-to-date.
9332	We haven’t had any summer here yet.
9333	“We have obtained new compounds mixing commercial materials such as polylactic acid (PLA), made from natural sugar sources, and biopolyesters, such as PBS polybutylene succinate (PBS), made from petroleum-based feedstock,” Escrig explains.
9334	"We have only the best experience with EIF and we appreciate the cooperation.
9335	We have received 11 specific comments most if which were already implemented to increase quality of the platform.
9336	We have reconceptualised the concept of risk governance specifically for Public Health purposes for vector-borne diseases, but it can also be used for other diseases or Public Health issues.
9337	We have supported better access for women to the labour market in one of the most needed areas of the country - the rural north.
9338	We have tested this idea with the Smart Citizen Kit in Amsterdam.
9339	We have therefore aimed for collaboration with ongoing actions towards developing near real-time exchange of input data for air quality forecasting.
9340	We have to argue for this link between the necessity of institutional reforms and the necessities for substance and policy change.”
9341	We have to ask: “How much energy could the Alpine region potentially produce and how much is still sustainable?”
9342	“We have to reawaken people’s desire for a Europe that’s strong, sure of its values and represents an ideal in the world,” declared Najat Vallaud-Belkacem.
9343	We have to start thinking “out of the box”.
9344	We have to understand that we are together.
9345	We have to wake up and start realising that these are not matters that can be left to someone else, we have to take a proactive approach and react… If we decide that nothing can be changed, nothing will be changed.”
9346	… we have tried to accelerate our association’s projects.
9347	We have tried to include all the relevant information; however the information provided is not fully detailed on all points and should be viewed as a guide not as a verbatim statement of the law.
9348	We have wide range of Hex Head Bolts, S.S. Hex Bolt, Heavy Hex Bolts, S.S Hex Screws & Bolts.
9349	We hope that the amendments to the electoral legislation will help to create a solid legal environment for competitive elections and a level playing field for candidates in the Presidential elections scheduled for spring.
9350	We hope to provide you with a brief introduction, quick overview and a useful pointer to sources where you can learn more about the Open Data and its publishing by bringing you a Blog post series in the coming months.
9351	We hope to reach time to market objectives and have be able to offer a very cost-effective and powerful diagnostic tool that will make a real difference in people’s lives.
9352	We interviewed them to find out more about how they can support international activities of Europe’s small businesses.
9353	We invite you to read an interview with Mr Jan Wyrwiński, Iwona Oleszczuk,the President of the Management Board of Aiton Caldwell SA, in which we discuss CSR implementation.
9354	We just took some of our stuff and then we rushed away.
9355	We know citizens and national politicians are beginning to wake up to the many threats it poses, and now we know that MEPs are preparing for a fight on transparency.
9356	We know that Plato went there.
9357	We know this when we see it.
9358	We launched our Capacity Building Programme in 2012 as a response to needs identified by our membership.
9359	Welcome coffee 12:00 – 12.30 Official opening ceremony of the Forum.
9360	Welcome to Lifessweet.
9361	We’ll all be utter slaves then, there’s just no bones about it.
9362	Well, basically, you know, they thought it was a great idea, the first time round.
9363	We'll be right back, Alan.
9364	We'll be right back with, Alan Watt.
9365	Well cared for hands and painted nails look sexy.
9366	Well, here we are, folks.
9367	Well, how do you do it?
9368	Well, I'm sure they'll soon get over that.
9369	Well, it’s put out as trivia, and for a guy to sell a book obviously.
9370	Well, maybe not in this case."
9371	Well, of course, it had nothing to do with that, it was to do with how all species work, what they have in common.
9372	We'll put his website up on screen, stay with us.
9373	Well, that will be true, because you see they're cutting back on flights everywhere and we know that, just like Agenda 21, we'll have no private transportation and all be hemmed in your city limits, where you're assigned.
9374	Well, they’re trying to start that whole thing across the whole of Europe now, to, again, change the idea of what a man will think of as himself, basically.
9375	Well written, easily readable!
9376	Well you see, these aren’t private really.
9377	We looked at what was already available in this regard, what was needed for the game, and we also added our own personal touch.
9378	We look forward to hearing about the next steps envisaged in this area of consumer safety.
9379	We look forward to implement the next steps.
9380	We look forward to reviewing the contributions.
9381	We look forward to the presentation of this addendum as well as to the recommendations that will be provided by the ACABQ on this very important and complex item.
9382	"We look forward to working closely with our customers at the forefront of development in the LNG market — a critical step in enhancing both nationwide infrastructure and availability of LNG."
9383	We look forward to working with Eutelsat on this opportunity.”
9384	"We love a Europe of diversity, that's our treasure, and we will fight until the end for it."
9385	Welsh Assembly Government– A Fuel Poverty Commitment for Wales 2003 set eradication targets of fuel poverty in vulnerable households by 2010, in social housing by 2012 & everywhere by 2018.
9386	"We must create a more streamlined application process and provide much needed clarity for the industry, it is important that we do not allow the cloning issue to derail Novel Foods again.
9387	We must increase public awareness and rather than soldiering on alone, we have created a climate embassy and invited voluntary citizens to become climate ambassadors in their neighbourhoods and implement practical and visible solutions.
9388	We need a person who will be creative and enthusiastic about the products that we sell.
9389	We need a proper binding regulatory framework based on human rights which guarantees that products sold on European markets do not violate dignity and the rights of individuals."
9390	We need a range of actions, from all stakeholders working together, in order to achieve the type of systemic change necessary to have a positive impact on curbing obesity across Europe’’.
9391	We need to achieve an ambitious agreement for COP 21 in Paris.
9392	We need to get some broad based support, to capture the public’s imagination Do you hear this: "to capture the public's imagination”?
9393	We need to look at this from both a short-term and a long-term perspective.
9394	We need to start cataloguing for a network age, and to work with the communities who represent the end users, who will ultimately access and re-use, and remix the contents of digital libraries.
9395	WeNMR groups different research teams into a worldwide virtual research community.
9396	We not only aim at optimizing geometric representations but in fact at bridging the gap between reconstruction and recognition of geometric objects.
9397	We offer a casting material in the rolled, peeled and forged design.
9398	We offer a free local delivery service, or we can quote for delivery further a field.
9399	We offer a model of currency carry trades in which carry traders earn positive excess returns if they successfully coordinate on supply- ing excessive capital to a target economy.
9400	We offer comprehensive customization using a three-phase testing model – each Phase is costed separately.
9401	We offered two times an official document to our Dutch Government of Health with our wishes and ideas to improve the quality of life with pain.
9402	We offer great career progression in a forever changing environment with a huge opportunity to gain knowledge and skills.
9403	We offer: powder coatings - epoxy, sealing profiles, conveyor belts, rubber offset, rescue and fire equipment, sealing and lifting bags, tires for motorcycles and quads.
9404	We offer prompt same/next day delivery and excellent personal customer service.
9405	We offer Radio Control Models, rc cars and trucks, offroad vehicles, remote control airplanes, remote control helicopters, rc motorcycles and rock crawlers, rc boats, and rc accessories.
9406	We offer tailoring alterations for all shapes and sizes and tailored designed clothing from sketches or drawings.
9407	We offer unique handmade sterling silver and gemstone jewelry, an exclusive line of handcrafted Italian silver and gemstone jewelry, and children's sterling silver and Swarovski crystal jewelry.
9408	We only need to look at the lengths businesses go to to gather customer feedback, to understand this.
9409	We operates according an allocation law which includes criteria and priority.
9410	We partnered with several communities, Watertown being one of them.
9411	We perform photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopy on single QDs to confirm such single-electron charging.
9412	We plan to develop an advanced version which should also work with cell-phone photographs, and we are also considering an embedded application for smartphones.
9413	We play the RES Champions League according to enhanced rules nowAn example of the municipality card Published by Tana Dutkevicova on 08/04/2014 This field is intentionally left blank.
9414	We predict that this approach will form a major part of a highly effective strategy for creating ligand-based multispecific receptor inhibitors and molecular tools for protein recognition.
9415	We present a design for a tunable RF phase shifter based on a planar dielectric elastomer actuator (DEA).
9416	We present results that have been collected on the PRACE prototype systems as well as on other GPU and MIC accelerated platforms with similar configurations.
9417	We pride ourselves on working closely with residents and surrounding communities to make sure we deliver high quality homes and services.
9418	We propose to add time series of seafloor oxygen microprofiles to the established long term benthic observatory at PAP.
9419	We provide a great alternative to the traditional and unpractical baby gifts.
9420	We provide protection of steel, concrete and timber construction systems TERFIX, Porfix, Pittura and Flamizol.
9421	We provide the opportunity to develop your skills in a wide range of research methods.
9422	We pursue full network and service virtualization to enable rich and flexible services and operational efficiency.
9423	"We realized those campuses were actually really insular and didn’t contribute or interact with the community around them, Discount Jordan White Metallic 5s Outlet Sale Womens Mens 2015," he says.
9424	We really need to decide what we want the EU to be and work towards that direction.
9425	We're excited that you have an opinion about the name Brianna.
9426	‘We’re far from a working circuit, I would say.’
9427	We refer to these protective mechanisms as “tissue damage control”, and will argue they are an essential component of immunity that allows the effector mechanisms involved in pathogen clearance to operate without causing disease.
9428	We're given obsolete technology, always, because power could never maintain power and share the latest of anything, with anyone else, and still retain power.
9429	We’re going through the big script, the big business plan as I’ve said before, that relies on conflict.
9430	We’re going to go straight to the phone lines.
9431	We regret that our call for the establishment of an online registry of documents sent by lobbyists to MEPs, Parliament staff, and other EU officials was rejected.
9432	We remain committed to the principles and values of the ILO Decent Work Agenda and Global Jobs Pact, which are now more relevant than ever.
9433	We remain committed to working with the three UNSC committees: their work must remain a priority for the UN and its Member States.
9434	We’re more advanced than the U.S., you see, in socialism.
9435	“We’re owned by our members and we pay out money as quickly as we can, four times a year.”
9436	We’re paying most of our money off in compound interest, that’s how it works.
9437	We're saying we're killing them out in the open.
9438	We’re seeing this played out… we’re living through it.
9439	“We’re working with refugees,” Mr.
9440	We're your source for teak, wicker, aluminum and wrought iron patio furniture.
9441	We saw headlines like ‘Europeana as a money maker for startups!’
9442	We saw this with the emergence of capitalists who had begun this.
9443	We scheduled a guided tour where we learnt on the History of wine culture in El Penedès area (pic 20).
9444	We see Al Gore going across the world, there's even a video up there on youtube, where Al Gore is telling a bunch of children, up to the age of twelve, that they now know things their parents don't know about the environment.
9445	We see dialogue being initiated by students and tutors at different times.
9446	We see it all over the world with homicidal types all fighting for what they supposedly believe in and yet they don't know their own histories, most of them.
9447	We see light coming from the left, the direction in which the path leads.
9448	We seem to be generally satisfied, everyone is okay with ‘the basic stability’ of life.
9449	We seem to have to live through the same reality over and over again.
9450	We see the necessity for a swift completion of the internal energy market as a way to support the economic recovery within the EU but also as a way to strengthen Europe’s external dimension.”
9451	We shall defend and protect what is ours by birthright.
9452	We shall see how that plays out but so far, nothing has been said in the meeting.
9453	We should recall our previous diagnoses.
9454	We sincerely hope that you will enjoy the COST stories and find COST News informative.
9455	We specialize in proven ethical optimization methods generating our business purely from Search Engine Results.
9456	We specialize in well work, rehabilitation and geological work in the fields of geology, hydrogeology, remediation.
9457	We started our work in November 2009 with the selection of the plants to be examined, then we continued with the separation of plant extracts and now the complex analitical-chemical examination is in progress.
9458	West Palm Beach accident injury lawyers and attorneys at Slawson, Cunningham, Whalen and Gaspari law firms are specialized in personal injury, wrongful death and insurance litigation cases all over Boca Raton, Wellington, Jupiter and throughout Florida.
9459	We strongly encourage potential proposers to discuss their ideas for experimentation with the CREW consortium prior to submission of their proposal, so as to ensure the feasibility of the proposed experiment within the CREW facilities and functionalities.
9460	We supervise 23 credit rating agencies by conducting thematic investigations, on-site visits, analysing the information CRAs provide to the public and by monitoring the implementation of remedial action plans.
9461	We support recent measures taken by UNMIK and KFOR to counter illegal border crossings and the illegal possession of arms as well as the adoption of a regulation to help combat terrorism in Kosovo.
9462	We support young people to get involved in their communities and democracy locally, nationally and internationally, making a difference as volunteers, campaigners, decision-makers and leaders.
9463	We tend to get caught up in the stories.
9464	We, the germans, have been told that we have emerged as the victors from a conflict between what we still percieve as our model ‘social market economy’ and the irresponsible pseudo socialist, anti-market statism of the southern periphery.
9465	We think back about: “okay, Jack being assassinated - you don’t get assassinated unless you run afoul, or maybe go back on a promise or change your mind or something like that and have a change of heart.”
9466	We translate service manuals, shop manuals, specifications, business proposals, feasibility studies, technical and economic assessments, annual reports, presentation slides, advertising materials, catalogues and brochures to and from Greek language.
9467	Wetsus, Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Water Technology is a facilitating intermediary for trend setting know-how development.
9468	We’ve become completely desensitized to our empathy that we should have towards other people.
9469	We’ve come to the end of an era as the end of an age and it's up to us where we take it from here.
9470	“We’ve even seen large alliances trying to manipulate aspects of the market to control the supply and affect prices,” Guðmundsson says.
9471	We’ve got a bad connection here.
9472	We've had a government-run farming industry.
9473	We’ve had horrendous wars in the past like Viet Nam.
9474	We've had workshops run where we've been taught how to use satellites resources by the Canadian space agency.
9475	We very much look forward to seeing you in Helsinki.
9476	We've seen how they're using cattle prods now on the public.
9477	We want a change of focus and a shift in approach towards water and sanitation services in European policy.
9478	"We want to be on an equal footing with Bosnia-Herzegovina and if this cannot be achieved, if the Serb Republic does not enjoy equality it will be independent," he declared on 5th September.
9479	We want war crimes to be pursued, to make the list of inhabitants right", underscored Tomislav Josic, president of the Staff.
9480	We welcome that the Senior Advisory Group on troop costs and related issues has been able to finalize its report and we will study its recommendations carefully.
9481	"We welcome the fact that this Investment Plan focuses on the right priorities for EU growth and jobs”, he said, "In particular, EU needs investment in the maintenance of existing infrastructure!”
9482	We were then able to use those studies as points of comparison for our joint research on those sections of the Lippe's water meadows which have been restored to their natural state.
9483	We were using it all that time.
9484	We will (1) close the water balance of each of the macrocosms, and (2) apply data-driven methods on lysimeters with different diversities to estimate root water uptake profiles and soil water fluxes based on the short term fluctuations of soil moisture.
9485	We will actively engage with transport buyers and suppliers to inform them of our findings and encourage them to adopt more sustainable transport options.
9486	We will be using Median Letter template.
9487	We will carry out MOT and insurance policy.
9488	We will classify the users on different kind of profiles, analyzing the potential for improvement and suggesting changes of behavior to reduce the overall energy consumption.
9489	We will contact the shop promptly about the issue. makes sure your online shopping is safe and guarantees your security, so that you can have some peace of mind.
9490	We will continue to focus on maintaining our loading efficiencies as well as benchmarking intermodal transport in the future.
9491	We will definitely try to work together with them on some awareness raising issues such as the white ribbon campaign Also, we are planning an update on the database.
9492	We will design a way out of here.
9493	We will develop novel designs for research on noise and health to provide to the EU a new strategy for the development of noise and health research in the future.
9494	We will disclose information we maintain when required to do so by law, for example in response to a court order.
9495	We will discuss different methods of sprite animation using HTML5 and remind information about basics of physics from high school.
9496	We will discuss how relevant stakeholders can take a leading role in transforming the way power systems are managed and operated in order to meet the twin targets of decarbonisation and increased market integration in the most efficient way.
9497	We will engage stakeholders closely in a pilot study on decision support to assess soil Impacts and to apply the soil indicators developed in WP5.
9498	We will, for example, discuss the role of men in gender-based violence and how to cooperate with women’s organisations and other stakeholders in this area.
9499	“We will preserve the cultural heterogeneity of this place and return its glitter to it”, said Minister of Culture Elizabeta Kanceva Milevska at the launch of the programme.
9500	We will regularly send out information on the progress of our research activities, recent publications, upcoming and past events, and much more.
9501	We will take your online presence to an optimal level.
9502	We wish to show here the advance that is made possible by this ‘reflexive’ deepening of the pragmatist theory of judgement in comparison with the usual critiques of positivism.
9503	We would appreciate very much to have a meeting with you to explain more in depth our proposals and start a productive dialogue.
9504	We would like them to have the opportunity of achieving the same intensity of debate," emphasised the President of the European Parliament, Josep Borrell.
9505	We would like to know about your user experiences of standards and services we offer and therefore we welcome your feedback.
9506	We would like to remind you of an open call for papers for a Special Issue of Springer's Journal of the Knowledge Economy.
9507	We wrote a document that will be distributed at the event, click here for the text: document for the eEnvironment event.
9508	WG tries so hard to make me spend my money.
9509	What about a food and agricultural exception?
9510	What about biodiversity and ecosystem services?
9511	What a mess it was.
9512	What are the legal implications?
9513	What are the weaknesses of the 1996 Directive and how is it abused?
9514	What can I say about that in an interview?
9515	What can the European Commission contribute to this?
9516	What can we demand if things go wrong?
9517	What connotations do you associate with it?
9518	What did you find most difficult with the app/with measurements?
9519	What does he mean by ‘threats’?
9520	What does the Smart City do more for spatial planning and urbanism?
9521	What does the United Nations say?
9522	What do I want to achieve?
9523	What do others really need from us?
9524	What do we expect from a former Russian colony only 20 years ago?
9525	What do we need to reach acceptable levels?
9526	What do you do? 1. You are a member of a task force in charge of reforming the common fisheries policy.
9527	What do you expect?
9528	What do you plan to say to policy-makers, business leaders, academic community, the press and others when meeting them on behalf of Clean Sky in the near future?
9529	What elements of international governance do already exist?
9530	What has become clear over the course of 4 rounds of talks is that TTIP has been tailored to serve the interests of big business over that of ordinary citizens.
9531	What have these reports achieved in the 9 years they have been issued and do Bulgaria and Romania even need them now?
9532	What have they stood up and fought for in the past?
9533	What he was referring to was the New Age, what's now called the New Age.
9534	What I am now going to say may sound outrageous, but at the time when in the whole world, including here in Bulgaria, many investments brought negative return of minus 40-50-60 percent, the pension funds achieved a positive yield of 2 percent.
9535	What if I told you no-one is safe from torture?
9536	What is a “Default usergroup”?
9537	What is also clear is that risks with which people are familiar are given less attention and do not create the same level of alarm or unease as risks associated with the new and unknown.
9538	What is an important act is the fact that the player feels committed to what the avatar does in the game.
9539	What is a Payment Scheme?
9540	What is a privacy expert?
9541	What is CitySDK?
9542	What is “democracy”?
9543	What is media power and who wields it?
9544	What is more, Poznań is a shopper's paradise.
9545	What is their views on European expansion?
9546	What is the legislation that most Europeans are waiting for in your opinion?"
9547	What is the maximum Guarantee Cap Rate?
9548	What is the meaning of intercultural justice?
9549	“What I’ve been talking about more recently is to explain to younger people how they need to be careful of that stuff because, once it is in your mind, it can really bother you.
9550	What i want to know, please, is if there is a command kensi ngton can put in to this batch kensington drivers mac that will force the device to check for outstanding updates so that they install kensington drivers mac the user shuts down the device.
9551	What kind of a world is it when those who till the soil to fill our dinner-plates can barely make enough to survive for another planting season?
9552	What kind of costs can be claimed?
9553	What kind of human being are you if you won’t protect your own children… REGARDLESS of authorities and threats and so on.
9554	What kind of indicators is it possible to query from the Zoom-in interface? 2.5.
9555	What kind of support the differen tools have for complex features is probably a question that we should ask the software providers.
9556	What may be the most important shift in the energy sector throughout the almost five years that have passed since Helge Lund gave this interview, is the price drop for solar energy.
9557	What might end up being a 10-second shot in front lleaf the White House can take hours in traveling and filming.
9558	What moves through us is a silence..
9559	What next after the EU's Vilnius summit?
9560	What options does the EU have to influence the global phosphate rock market?
9561	What political/legal difficulties did The Netherlands encounter in the application of the ESM Treaty?
9562	What rights does the end user gain by its participation in this EuRoC competition?
9563	What should be done to better equip European citizens with the 21st Century skills that will help them find jobs?
9564	What should have been done first was to show the group of youngsters urban transport in Szczecinek in attractive and at the same time consise way.
9565	What's included: Accommodation and meals, transport to / from Sarajevo (pre-booked), limited travel costs (depending on location).
9566	What’s more, the redesigned invoices initiated a higher conversion rate on promotional activities.
9567	What’s the best joke you’ve found during your research?
9568	What's the field like?
9569	What's your question?
9570	What that abuse really means is not clear, and as long as that is not clear, it is not clear what kind of solution – such as a five year probation system – we would need.
9571	What the advocates of CCS usually neglect to mention is that the reduced efficiency which is the result of implementing CCS processes greatly increases total energy use.
9572	What the impact of reshuffles on policy-making and policy outputs?
9573	What these characters do… Deborah: Or the, I don’t understand derivatives.
9574	What was the role of movement and nature?
9575	What was your occupational status at the time of your return?
9576	What was your pre-game programme like?
9577	What were the methods used by Hitler and Goebbels for "depriving eighty million people of independent thought and subjecting them to the will of one man"?
9578	What we were wearing at that time, today would be simply classified as life-threatening, we wouldn’t be allowed to go into the water in such gear.
9579	What we will discuss today is the ways in which the European Union's tools and the instruments we have, apart from sanctions, can be used in a more coordinated way and in a more effective way.
9580	What will you see there?
9581	What would a bike collection be without a messenger bag?
9582	What would people do with the money?
9583	What would you say has been the group’s best achievement so far?
9584	What you are looking for is confirmation that indigenous Europeans should be eliminated as their very existence appears to reduce you in some way.
9585	When a customer registers with the site they will be able to buy from these other stores.
9586	When a date is formally produced by the portal a perfect semantic usage is possible, so that formal calendar is accessible (offering from to values), otherwise a string match is suggested.
9587	When Boaz meets his harvesters he greets them with a blessing: "The Lord be with you!"
9588	When closing a file or project, KeyVision will request the completion of the closing date and a final resolution.
9589	When comparing the results of IIIA dataset and Bielefeld dataset, we can see that the ALV homing method performs slightly better on the IIIA panoramas, but the difference is not significant.
9590	When concluding the marriage, the spouses are obliged to choose their matrimonial property regime.
9591	When discussing ‘Erasmus for all’ the CULT-committee preferred an extensive debate on whether ‘Erasmus’ is an apt name for the mobility-programme (!).
9592	When done well, print ads provide a certain element of magic to the consumer, one that captures your eye and forces you to come back to take a second look.”
9593	When EBU summoned all international experts on HbbTV and Interactive TV for 2015’s BroadThinking Event, TV-RING was featured with two presentations in the auditorium, two booths in the exhibition area and hands-on demos in the Living Labs.
9594	Whenever there’s a stalemate on something, one side is waiting to get the big bribes from the other boys, you know, the big boys, and that’s really what they do.
9595	Whenever well looked after garage window inserts can easily last for a long period of time.
9596	When he and Monroe later reviewed the video, they realized it might be the Griffin.
9597	When his mother became ill he organised meeting of own Circle of Support and described his wish to live independently.
9598	When I attend the EVCA Venture Capital Forum in Berlin next month, I will be discussing with colleagues the next stage of development for venture capital in Europe.
9599	"When I explain to people why the Big Data movement is important — why it's a real change instead of a fad — I point to price as the fundamental difference between the old and new worlds.
9600	When I meet them, the crew of the Virginio Fasan have just disembarked around 2010 men, women and children they had rescued two days before.
9601	When in ancient times they talked about, when the elite talked, the crowd that ran Plato and so on, talked about perfecting the world, and that man's intellect would become god-like, you see.
9602	When investigating near miss cases, the focus is on the question: What might have happened?
9603	When I started at Piranha I had the idea to develop the music search database Piranha Music Scout.
9604	When it comes to plant genetic engineering, however, people are right to be cautious – at least in Europe.
9605	When it gets too bad, too much drought, too much wet, whatever, too many mosquitoes where I am because of the incredible amounts of rain water, and you’ll find that people will gradually adapt and simply move.
9606	When it has finished cooking, check and adjust the seasoning if necessary.
9607	When looking at the reconstruction of a floodplain, first the function must be defined (Plateew et al., 2001).
9608	When looking into finding a good site for you it is important to know what games you want to play.
9609	When modbus information is sent using these protocols, the teacher resignation letter examples is passed to TCP where additional information is attached and given to IP.
9610	When no one textile material predominates by weight, the goods are to be classified as if consisting wholly of that one textile material which is covered by the heading which occurs last in numerical order among those which equally merit consideration.
9611	When Paul states that disobedience causes the man’s sin (not mentioned in the story), he is writing fiction, i.e. he’s lying.
9612	When people with learning difficulties are integrated into the work place and become part of a team, non-disabled staff members also benefit.
9613	When regulations change, companies can more easily respond.
9614	When selecting ammunition online, it is essential to make use of a respected site that focuses on rounds.
9615	When standing for election each candidate must also declare willingness to stand for the Presidency in the coming period, and issue a specific manifesto or statement with proposed policies and actions.
9616	When tax-paying Greeks have for years been taken for a brutal ride by the other Greeks, that is not solidarity.
9617	When the best windows vista-64 bit compatible printer and scanner reviews search is over, we will report ati radeon x1300 driver for xp under this title.
9618	When the cells were found to be free of the cancer gene, he was implanted in his mother’s uterus and allowed to live.
9619	When the hopes, dreams and goals of individual members are superseded by a central power, that power subverts the very freedoms it was founded to protect.
9620	When the lighting turns orange, other drivers know that the truck is driving autonomously.
9621	When the names are different because the applicant is a licensee, then article 20 (1) of the Sunrise Rules will apply and when the applicant is a transferee of the prior right, then article 20 (2) of the Sunrise Rules will apply.
9622	When the other party sees that you really want to know, they will give you all the information that you need to determine how you can create a solution that is beneficial to you as well as them.
9623	When there's no men and women together, there's no family unit, therefore the state controls the world.
9624	When they came to power in 1997 Labour made a promise to the British: that they would put public services back on their feet without eating into the State's accounts.
9625	When they show up, you can actually stick to the tutorial you located and simply restore your personal appliance.
9626	When things get out you do wonder – I mean even with Quigley writing so much about roses cru, other things are not stated – like there is the Pilgrim Society which nobody ever talks about.
9627	When this happens, a small flight from a certain asset class can lead to catastrophic declines.
9628	When travelling around the Czech countryside, it is almost impossible not to notice the typical photovoltaic panels covering fields, farmlands and meadows.
9629	When we’re talking about summertime, people believe that if they lather themselves up with sunscreen they’re going to be okay, and it’s just like, you know, the mosquito stuff with that D in it, whatever that, it’s killer stuff.
9630	When you click the hotel category in the list below, you can view all the hotels available within this category.
9631	When you feel secure, you start getting ideas like “I've got rights,” and they start to push certain laws through, you say, "hey, you can't do that to me," and you might stand up for yourself.
9632	"When you have fibrosis, the filter is getting tough and starts to be blocked.
9633	When You Need to Get Legal Help The way that modern cities are designed is based on the amount that people drive their cars.
9634	When your labor is taken off you, you understand, by force if necessary, and with no recompense whatsoever, no paycheck for your labor, that’s called slavery.
9635	When you set automatic versioning for a folder (unlimited or limited number of versions) the following will happen to the already existing documents and subfolders: Documents not under version control: remain unchanged, i.e. as documents without versions.
9636	When Zhou endorsed Bo’s campaign (‘strike the black’) against corruption and organised crime in Chongqing, he was only doing his official duty.
9637	Where animals such as dogs and rodents act as reservoir hosts for disease, infected hosts can be culled in order to reduce disease transmission risk.
9638	Where can I buy the ARIA in ruby gold?
9639	Where can I download the models?
9640	Where can these important collaborative discussions happen?
9641	Where find housing transfer manual 2006?
9642	Where find lutron grafik eye integrale manual?
9643	Where find mining of rare earth elements?
9644	Where find norton windoctor software?
9645	Where find rhetorical strategies definition and examples?
9646	Where find why do you want this scholarship essay?
9647	Where the Committee is prepared to grant an opinion (initial or a post-authorisation opinion) but where some issues remain to be addressed by the applicant, Follow-Up Measures (FUMs) or Specific Obligations (SOs) may be imposed.
9648	Where the fee is a percentage of the price of the building, the price index should be a combination of changes in the fee percentage and changes in the price of the building.
9649	Where the many are, there is security; what the many believe must of course be true;" Alan: My saying is (personally), “Never underestimate the stupidity of very large groups of people.”
9650	Wherever they go, there is a mass slaughter.
9651	Wherever you're arriving from, the airport can provide you with personalised information about your onward journey with its My Airport Guide service.
9652	Where will the EASL Ethics Committee meet?
9653	Whether it's the fanciest flavors from the local ice cream shops or the homemade ice cream recipes from grandma's kitchen, it seems like everyone has a favorite ice cream flavor of some sort.
9654	Whether that is best achieved via republican or dictatorial means is ultimately irrelevant to them.
9655	Whether you’re a novelist, a screenwriter, you make little widgets or gadgets for home craft, anything like that, or you’re a painter, you take grants from the government.
9656	Which advices would you give cities who wish to develop a successful integrated urban approach?
9657	Which areas of ICANN’s work would you recommend to telcos specifically, if they are interested to get more involved in the community?
9658	Which are the strategy's main pillars?
9659	Which brings me back to the point I made earlier; the intelligence services are necessary – a must – and cyber offers them a means to access information that didn’t exist before.
9660	Which brings me neatly on to the subject of our co-operation.
9661	Which course is the choir going to set for itself for thefuture?
9662	Which is better.
9663	Which is what this question is really all about.
9664	Which monitoring/evaluation mechanisms are necessary to assess the achievement of SD policy and governance?
9665	Which organisations have played a key role in the reduction of cross border payments?
9666	Which party will YOU vote for?
9667	Which Wireless Adapter Do You Have (1:43) How to identify the Wi-Fi adapter in an Ultrabook™ Intel® Wireless Gigabit Technology (2:54) Create, consume, communicate, and collaborate wire-free with instant wireless docking.
9668	While adults associate the need for privacy with potential stranger-danger, the young consider direct authority figures as threats to their privacy.
9669	While BERD had grown at an average annual rate of 12% over the five years to 2007-2008, growth has slowed since then.
9670	While both industries and academic communities have developed frameworks to simplify the PSI app development, our frame…Proximity-based Social Interaction (PSI) apps are emerging on mobile platforms.
9671	While completing the PhD, I will continue working with GPR Dehler as Academic & Research Coordina-tor, attempting to build bridges for the transfer of knowledge between academia and industry.
9672	While crossing the online Rubicon has led to increased choice, lower prices and more optimal markets, many concerns have arisen, not least those surrounding security and identity.
9673	While he was studying law, it was quite clear that his major interests were in physics and mathematics.
9674	While I am sure she will make a terrific model someday, I find these pictures beyond disturbing – she is styled way too maturely.’
9675	While it addresses oil spill monitoring directly, it is of relevance to maritime domain awareness in general.
9676	While it is certainly important to listen to people and take their concerns seriously, Orbán makes conclusions that are outside the European legal and moral framework.
9677	While it is easy to sit in a room and listen to different parties and people discussing their different campaigning ideas, it is difficult to get these ideas clearly across.
9678	While it is most common to confine measures of inequality to national borders, the existence of such union-wide objectives and policies motivates measuring income dispersion among all Europeans in this paper.
9679	While I was browsing yesterday I noticed a great post concerning..
9680	While saucepots simmered steadily, the mediocre nonstick properties make it really hard to justify the price (from $99.99 for an eight-inch fry pan to $875.00 for a 10-piece set).
9681	While speculative considerations in this emerging field of science cannot be avoided, the authors have tried to present their study with the breadth and seriousness that a scientific approach to this issue requires.
9682	While the attention should have been on saving jobs and strengthening social safety nets, Merkel and Sarkozy talked about the confidence of the global markets summit after summit.
9683	While the copper industry itself is relatively small in terms of employment (+/- 50,000 people across Europe), it employs many skills in a variety of job types.
9684	While the EU is neither willing to nor capable of playing this game, Moscow is.
9685	While the project is on track to achieve the objectives, one identified challenge is to motivate SMEs to engage in the scheme, as the economic benefit of a carbon labelling approach is at this point in time not obvious to Malysian SMEs.
9686	While there, the organization observed horrendous conditions where workers – some in their early teens – live in crowded sheds without access to clean water and sanitation.
9687	While we work with a national network of lenders, they fo r not always able to provide every available loan product in the marketplace.
9688	While working for the national artists' cooperative, the NICC (New International Cultural Centre), she looked after the interests of its visual artists.
9689	While you’re there you can also see the books I have for sale, CD’s and discs.
9690	Whilst taking positive note of the recent one-off transfers of agricultural products and fish from Gaza to the West Bank, the EU stresses the importance of a change of the Israeli policy, allowing Gaza to trade normally and on a permanent basis.
9691	Whilst the financing is not long-term based (allocations given annually from the state budgets) the PSB still writes three-year development plans which indicate the financial needs in detail.
9692	Who appoints these advisors to them?
9693	WHO are collecting DALY figures but these relate to food borne trematode diseases in general.
9694	Who give you right to do this?
9695	Whole genome research involves the collection and storage of a biological sample, the sequencing of the genome, data analysis, and, more and more frequently, the release and exchange of these data in scientific databases to facilitate research.
9696	Whole villages have been expropriated to make way for lignite mining."
9697	Who owns the information?
9698	Who rules the European Union?
9699	Who she is: Katrin is a senior researcher in the International Space & Response division at LANL (who has recently moved to ANL).
9700	Who would like to show solidarity towards a State that did not respect the collective rules whilst personally major sacrifices have been made?
9701	Why Choose this Training Method.
9702	Why do so many people fail to recognize that economic growth depends on population growth, and not on debt expansion or ‘more free trade’?
9703	Why do some of my records do not appear in the VLO?
9704	Why do they always just add a lie?
9705	Why do we have electric tin openers and Boardwalk Empire, while our closest relatives, the chimps, are still figuring out how to use a stick, and are only on season two of The Sopranos?
9706	Why Do We Need Electricity Retailers?
9707	Why do you think they do that, including the redistribution of your wealth etc?
9708	Why is it relevant to society?
9709	Why is plurilingualism an essential vector of democratic citizenship?
9710	Why should GNSS be taken into account when implementing nationwide RUC schemes?
9711	Why the shoe finally caught on stateside so late in the game remains a mystery, as the 1991 Tinker Hatfield creation was making its presence felt throughout Europe for quite some time.
9712	Why was the number of casualties so high?
9713	Why were EUI researchers invited to the school?
9714	Why would they fund communism?
9715	Wide selection of table linen at unbeatable price We provide orthodox tibetan Thangka,prayer flag,prayer wheel,Thangka,more.
9716	Wiebe Ruttenberg is Head of the Market Integration Division in the Directorate General Payments and Market Infrastructure of the European Central Bank.
9717	Will he be able to lead the (.
9718	Will he receive a non-dual card in this case?
9719	Will their financial dependency on the West allow them to have the autonomy of free opinion, with a vision of the world that will embody a true acceptation of responsibility?
9720	WinImage is a very good power tool for the 1:1 copying of floppy discs and CD-ROMs.
9721	With a forecasted average flow of 170 M€ total cost of labelled projects per year, the results of the EURIPIDES 4 year Calls are encouraging.
9722	With a green zone at the top, the roof functions as a park and public space.
9723	With an immersive in-country experience in a select global market and meetings with local business leaders, participants will gain a greater understanding of the unique attributes of customers in markets around the world.
9724	With a strong focus on tracking and measuring these concepts, we will be sharing our experiences with you throughout the year in the form of a number of case studies, so keep your eyes peeled.
9725	With a student identity card a lot of cheaper options are available for public transport, entry fees to museums and youth events.
9726	With BOINC, you can allow unused processing capacity of your PC to help with scientific experiments.
9727	With both regional entities comprising spaces of vast political, economic, geographical, cultural and religious heterogeneity, EU-ASEAN cooperation could bring credibility and a strong voice in shaping the international arena.
9728	With CEMG practice and group management the statement, "You take care of the patients and we will take care of the business" will never ring more true.
9729	With computers ranging from the oldest model to one of the newest ones of bmw m performance parts f20 year.
9730	With CPSoS, this separation can no longer be upheld.
9731	With few adjustments the museum could be on its way to a good long-term preservation plan.
9732	With few exceptions, political careers are made and lost on the national level.
9733	With flap to slide under loop.
9734	With Franco, only Spanish flag and language were allowed, and fake history was taugh.
9735	With healthier finances the Bar has been able to reach out and support social events held around the EUI: “We had an outdoor fridge during the Coppa Pavone, and some umbrellas for the bar and the BBQ.
9736	Within a climate of fear that does not encourage democratic elections, Byelorussians hardly had any other choice but to say ‘yes' to Batka (father in Byelorussian) as Alexander Lukashenko likes to be called.
9737	Within any category you will find the associated Learning Modules on the top, followed by summaries of other content types.
9738	With increasing global economic challenges and uncertainty, Europe’s regions must become more inventive, react quicker and address global and environmental challenges by innovating more.
9739	Within ENDORSE the detailed expectation of the users and the tools and standards in the grid management will be analysed and the lessons learned will be adapted to the design of this service.
9740	Within my group new theoretical tools have now been established which are extremely well suited to the study of complex materials.
9741	Within PrimeLife, researchers have developed several prototypes and demonstrators that allow addressing some of the identified key issues conflicting with lifelong privacy.
9742	Within their first few years in power, the new leadership will be expected to articulate their specific ideological vision of the CPC, and of China itself.
9743	Within this activity we assess how future climate developments may impact flood hazard across Europe.
9744	Within this geographical area ICES recognizes the existence of two stocks, the so-called northern (ICES Division IIIa, Subareas II, IV, VI and VII and Divisions VIIIa,b,d) and southern stock (ICES Divisions VIIIc and IXa) (ICES, 2005a).
9745	Within this set of courses, you will familiarise yourself with the standard terms and functions used in the f..
9746	With ist high energetic standards, the building leads to remarkable decrease of CO2-emissions and energy consumption.
9747	With its high print quality and small footprint it covers various user expectations and requirements especially in the building and construction industry, the architectural market, as well as governmental organizations.
9748	With it, the company continues its commitment to support start-ups in business areas relevant to Konica Minolta.
9749	With Mon810-pollen no damage was found on the most sensitive species, the diamond-back moth, even with 80 pollen grains per caterpillar.
9750	With monitoring and evaluation we can identify successful and no longer appropriate adaptation measures - recognise that adaptation is a continuous learning process.
9751	“Without legal guarantees for net neutrality 1 in 4 Europeans are unable to access the online services of their choice.
9752	Without proper tuning, systems cannot achieve good performance.
9753	Without real investment in R & D and good quality programmes we will not be able to meet Europe's or even Scotland's economic targets or make progress with the Lisbon agenda.
9754	Without saying it directly, but from the vice president's statement, who is responsible for justice, fundamental rights and citizenship, it became clear that Bulgaria and Romania are a separate category member states.
9755	Without the clinics, the project would not have been able to maintain its budget.
9756	Without the use of the EU you would have never managed to become what you are.
9757	With over 250 members it promotes co-operation amongst television archives, multimedia and audiovisual archives and libraries.
9758	With regard to this family name, there is no demonstrable link whatsoever between Respondent and the Disputed Domain Name.
9759	With such a high tendency for women to get diseases, women require to have the economic stability to take care of themselves later in life.
9760	With the collaboration of classworkdevelopmenteducationeducational resourcemalariamultimedia resourceonline gamepovertyrisk Skin cancer: ethical issues Would you undergo a test that could tell you if you were going to develop melanoma?
9761	With the entry into force of new legislation in April 2004, the authorisation went through a notification process and is now also valid under the new law, but only until spring 2007.
9762	With the help of these prediction tools the two GMD groups have submitted models for most of the targets within the disciplines (2) and (4) of CASP-2.
9763	"With the inauguration of the 6-megawatt plant, we start with the commercial application of this new power storage technology," says ETOGAS CEO Dr.
9764	With these innovative metal-textile composites, the textile structures should be connected to the metal sheets without the use of an additional adhesive.
9765	With the Sekerbank covered bonds deal a substantial contribution to capital market development and broadening of the Turkish financial sector in is made.
9766	With these new observations, we can still see the shock waves created when the system was formed!
9767	With the tools' map you will have a general view of all the resources, the..
9768	With the Wattics system, we have discovered which devices are the most consumers of electricity, which has been highly appreciated from and end-user perspective.
9769	With this cover theme, Eurescom mess@ge sheds some more light on this promising issue.
9770	With time and microbial activity, new complex organic molecules (humus) are formed.
9771	With today's increase, the Commission's humanitarian aid for Iraq in 2015 stands at more than €63 million.
9772	With York just ahead in the history of the tournament, Roses is hugely competitive!
9773	Witness how taxation, like rain, trickles down through the various pervious levels of government until it reaches the impervious level — me and you.
9774	Woh I am glad to find this website through google.
9775	Wojciech Wielki June 16th, 2014 What Russia should made is respect the Human rights and become integrated in the EU, then we will depend mutually and we’ll be invincible.
9776	Women like to wear comfortable, attractive and sensuous dresses at night.
9777	Woody Debris Dams for Flood Risk Management, Wales Categories: Wales Water management Study visit Size: 1.02 MB display document Study Visit Card 7 from Great Triley Wood visit.
9778	Work at Home - 3 Simple Steps to Start Your Home Based Business & Make Quick Money Online - Best Affiliate Program & Affiliate Marketing - Complete Money Making Website Building in 24 hours.
9779	Workers older than 65 years of age are quite different from workers aged 55-64.
9780	Work Experience for Composition for Screen No work experience is required.
9781	Work Experience for Environmental Engineering No work experience is required.
9782	Work Experience for Funded PhD in Engineering: Anomaly Detection in Videos No work experience is required.
9783	Work Experience for General Toxicology No work experience is required.
9784	Work Experience for Theatre Directing No work experience is required.
9785	Working groups will consist of international teams of researchers with internationally recognized expertise in their fields of research.
9786	Working in an open and transparent process and using ASTM’s advanced electronic infrastructure, ASTM members deliver the test methods, specifications, guides and practices that support industries and governments worldwide.
9787	Work in individual countries is addressed in the section on data & indicators.
9788	Work Packages were aligned with specific objectives and each was expected to produce substantial deliverables (please see description of EUnetHTA Project Work Packages).
9789	Workshop I, theme one - Topic for PhD thesis; theme two - Foundations and methodology of scientific research.
9790	Works in interdisciplinary fields of contemporary art, focusing on audio-visual installations and performances.
9791	Works TP shall have no liability for the contents of such web pages and does not represent or endorse such web pages or their contents.
9792	WORK Technology Summit held in London at LSO St Luke’s on 18-19 September 2014 was a two-day summit to discover emerging technologies shaping the future of business & society.
9793	Work was performed under the joint lead of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry for Family, Seniors, Women and Youth and integrated a variety of actors and perspectives from the realms of health and social care.
9794	World peace will come apparently through this new system.
9795	Worldwide, a total of 1,000 IT experts cooperate closely with all brands and functions of the company.
9796	Worldwide occurrence of Parkinson's disease: An updated review.
9797	Wortmann-Kool continued: "We have to invest in China opening up its market and fulfilling the WTO commitments in daily practice.
9798	Would you be prepared to have a skype meeting early in the New Year to introduce youself to the group?
9799	WOW - cycle practice in the sun Fareeda Akb, 4 dage siden3 kommentarer3 deltager Joy Anibaba, Kommenterede dette for 1 dag 16 timer siden.
9800	WP 1 provided forms and templates such as a Letter of Consent.
9801	WP3 Recovery: Methods and Tools – This work package deal with the REMICS Recovery phase, focusing on the extraction of service components from legacy applications and information systems.
9802	WP6 - Dissemination and outreachThis work package is concerned with ensuring effective dissemination of project products (data, graphics, and reports) and with facilitating the uptake of these products by future end users of climate data.
9803	• Write, create and update content for all social media and blogs.
9804	Writing in Veterinary Parasitology, he reports: “The protective immune response to Leishmania is cell-mediated; for visceralizing Leishmania species a mixed T helper (Th)1/Th2 response with a dominant Th1 profile is required for protection.
9805	Written by Jackie Gordon on February 4, 2014.
9806	X-Cache: MISS from localhost X-Cache-Lookup: MISS from localhost:80 Via: 1.0 localhost (squid) Connection: close Work Package 1 is one out of two work packages which have been predefined by the SEE Programme Authorities.
9807	X-Debug-recv: Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:13:22 GMT Age: 23658 Connection: close On some areas of the banknote you can see tiny writing.
9808	X-Debug-recv: Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:14:44 GMT Age: 1147 Connection: close The €10 banknote of the Europa series - page 29 Small fibres embedded in thepaper appear.
9809	X-Debug-recv: Date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 12:14:50 GMT Age: 1166 Connection: close The €10 banknote of the Europa series - page 31 centreglow yellow, the large stars and several other areas gloworange.
9810	X-Header-Set-Id: cache-in-memory Content-Length: 25979 X-Varnish: 1231187074 Age: 0 Via: 1.1 varnish Connection: close Skip to content.
9811	XTP is highly controversial: Its advocates perceive it as promising since it could help to remedy the shortage of human transplants.
9812	Yanis, about smallness, if the Greek currency was backed by Gold/Silver what difference does it make re the size of the country?
9813	Yep, clearly, all criminals always show everyone that they are up to criminal things.
9814	Yes, credit cards will be accepted.
9815	"Yes, it is different to play on natural or artificial grass.
9816	Yes, most of it fell flat, that's inevitable, but the point is that their opinions and ideas were listened to with respect.
9817	Yes, there is the Central Registry of Wills, which is maintained, operated and administered by the Notary Chamber of the Czech Republic.
9818	Yes with eCoMove and fuel optimisation!
9819	Yet, as Friebis reflected, ‘without the student initiative it An observer might add, without the Council’s openness to citizen-led initiatives it Consultation was also a feature of the beginning of pedestrian zones in the city centre.
9820	Yet could this progress be undone by a Romney victory?
9821	Yet, he goes more into detail, stating that corruption reforms should address the wide spectrum of the problem, and not only focus on the most blatant ones such as bribery and only rare cases of graft.
9822	Yet Paul Magnette is quick to refute the image—which he sees as hugely misleading—of a propped-up Wallonia, facing up to a triumphant Flanders.
9823	Yet, pharmaceutical companies fail to see the practical applications of aging research as many early experiments with drugs that held promise in slowing the aging processes resulted in commercial failures and write offs.
9824	Yet the very fact that they have to constantly justify themselves as errant pupils to Brussels is precisely what makes them reluctant to definitively reject Russia’s singularly unique form of courtship.
9825	Yet this account has been subject to important critiques, including recently by Amartya Sen in his magisterial The Idea of Justice.
9826	Yet, too often, there is no picture at all.
9827	You also cannot simply increase the vessel’s deadweight by several thousands of tons and completely ignore the preservation of its flotation features and travel speeds.
9828	You also cannot use this while you are on your bike.
9829	You also have the capacity to connect with the local BBB so that you will be able to learn more about the local dog boarding facilities.
9830	You also have your own television, cd player and video.
9831	You also see them grabbing motorists and cursing and swearing at them.
9832	You also will find all previous newsletters back to 2003.
9833	You are a blobby (something close to jelly) who play Volleyball.
9834	You are an expert in R Script?
9835	You are currently browsing the blog archives for October, 2009.
9836	You are currently using guest access (Login) The sub-module is split into two parts.
9837	You are familiar with it, but you want to learn more about sustainable collection, transport and storage of locally available grass residues?
9838	You are here: Home » Cluster Projects » Seventh Framework Programme Projects » NANOTHER Standard Procedures for Nanoparticle Testing The 2013 NMP Orientation Paper is now online.
9839	You are here: Home → Members → MTW → Relevant Events → SIGMAP 2007, International Conference on Signal Processing and Multimedia Applications Cookies are not enabled.
9840	You are here: Homepage > Research & Development It is CEN/TC250's responsibility to develop a detailed standardisation work programme.
9841	You are here: Home → Thematic Work Packages Areas → WP9 - Management of the Project → Workgroup Documents Library → WP9 - Management of the Project PUBLIC LIBRARY Did you not find what you were looking for?
9842	You are here:Offers > Qualification offers The modules vary in time format ranging from evening workshops to courses lasting several days.
9843	You are looking for a legal method for having all the latest songs on your PC or MP3-Player?
9844	You are never consulted on anything that is going to affect your lives —and that’s across the whole world for instance.
9845	You are now browsing all items filed in the "garage" category.
9846	You are now browsing all items tagged with "Building Permit Make."
9847	You are required to complete a project in your third year (applicable to all our courses) and this is an excellent way to evidence the skills you have learnt to future employers or prepare for postgraduate study.
9848	You are the one to fail to understand what a nation is – a nation is bound together by it’s common heritage – whet does europe have as a common heritage?
9849	You are under THEM, a bigger, more powerful tyrant.
9850	You are very much welcomed to participate at the WP4 pilot regional conference.
9851	You as an individual customer remain anonymous.
9852	You being… the authority who afford to make recommendations to others on what is or not an “argument” during a debate and dismiss discretionary anyone.
9853	You can add a smartwatch so you don't have to unlock your S4 when your watch is close by, avoid unlocking when you're at home or the office or even set a trusted face or voice.
9854	You can also consult the Europass Compatibility Matrix for further details.
9855	You can also discover Varna and Nice – the ‘pearls’ of two seas, and Neolithic villages discovered in Stara Zagora and Vaucluse, France.
9856	You can also give anonymous feedback by sending a comment to the presenter through the “Give Feedback” button.
9857	You can check it on the flipside of each challenge page.
9858	You can click on the "Details" tab, to see the contents.
9859	You can determine which quiz attempts are included in the analysis by setting the following parameters: It may be convenient to analyze just one quiz attempt for each user.
9860	You can discover the winners in each of the categories here.
9861	You can download SAA's contribution below.
9862	You can download the summary about the work progress.
9863	You can even take videos and photos at the same time thanks to simultaneous video-photo mode.
9864	You can find all the details in the final program.
9865	You can find more information about this programme on the programme website View 16 other online Short Courses in Business & Technology in United States We Are Helping Thousands of Students to Find a University Abroad!
9866	You can get fined for going down the road with a placard, for instance, without a license.
9867	You can hardly speak and you can’t walk.
9868	You can help them shape LifeWatch by taking the time to fill in the survey.
9869	You can kathy reichs virals ebook on the web from Windows Live Hotmail or use Messenger on your smartphone.
9870	"You cannot overbill the patient for a service that is publicly funded."
9871	You cannot save up your credits, so you’ll all be equally poor.
9872	You cannot tell the children what we're doing to them.
9873	You can pay in Euros, Swedish or Danish kronor for your ticket at Kastrup.
9874	You can play as long as you want and the more you play, the more points you get to play more!
9875	You can press Z again to get back into the sharepoint interview questions by shivprasad koirala pdf.
9876	You can read more about the results and recommendations.
9877	You can see it on their website, this amazing building; and, go into the founder too and, if you do your real homework, you’ll find out all of his connections as well and who helped back him - and that tells you all you need to know.
9878	You can see new beast videos every day on our.
9879	You can send cash as well.
9880	You can send your article in our directory.
9881	You can’t save a system like that, I hope you understand it.
9882	You can't simply do it by making a move when no one opposes you.
9883	You can't sleep for a minute in any generation before they're back doing it again.
9884	You can use all the languages, but your film need to have English subtitles.
9885	You can use olympus xd picture card recovery to undelete your missing pictures from XD card without hesitation.
9886	You can use our collection of graphs, charts, tables and maps with statistical data for any purpose (just please credit the European Parliamentary Research Service).
9887	You can use the Blog function for sharing thoughts and reflections on the work.
9888	You completed some fine ptinos there.
9889	You couldn't move without government restrictions and regulations, until literally it made small business especially, through the 70s and 80s, almost impossible to carry on, because you had so much red tape and form filling to do.
9890	You could pretty well do any porno, just sitting there, just taking all the photographs and so on.
9891	You descended to the lowland where cannons were shooting and took a gun in your hands.
9892	You didn't have scientific explanations for anything.
9893	You do not need to prove your qualities as a great lover -It is your turn to receive the pleasure.
9894	You don’t have to go into the occult; all you will find is coding… and yeah, there are thousands of codes out there.
9895	You don’t know that the environmental movement was joined to the eugenics movement and the cultural change movement.
9896	You don’t know which job exactly you are interviewing for.
9897	You don’t like to be in a situation where the company doesn’t compensate you if some of your things become damaged during transportation.
9898	You don't show the camps, because then Glenn Beck will have to admit they exist.
9899	You don't take these kind of oaths as an adult and accept the penalties for disclosing the information or the secrets as they call it.
9900	You don't want to keep your kids sheltered to long you have to introduce them to the world and let them find things out naturally.
9901	You dont want to such as anxiety disorders deal to the excellent maybe would die for.
9902	You either own something outright or you don’t.
9903	You even have the culture industry involved in the militarization of the general population.
9904	You feel isolated on your own.
9905	You get a massive fine and they rip the child out.
9906	You have good news too, that..
9907	You have to do it yourself.
9908	You have to kill all the stickmans at th..
9909	You have to remember that the ads you hear on this show are paid directly to RBN for the air time and the broadcast and their staff and equipment and bills.
9910	You have to work together.
9911	You just need to have an Internet connection, Flash installed on your computer and it should work in an instant.
9912	You know, all these things are worked out way, way, way in advance.
9913	You know for one thing it's a very decisive issue.
9914	You know, sometimes there are situations, when even we forget if we’re actually going to add submarines or night battles to the game or not.
9915	You know, they’re not going to do it.
9916	You know, what thinking do we start using to go past it?
9917	You know, when they said… I’m a spiritual man so when you know the Bible, a lot of it, it just comes so easy, what you are talking about.
9918	You know, you'll get a penalty for two weeks off the internet or a month, just to punish you.
9919	You’ll also be playing for Leader Board points, with prizes awarded to the top players at the end of the season.
9920	You'll be chasing auroras around officially the most Northern point in the EU.
9921	You’ll find that the big companies now like IBM, IBM is a massive player in the world.
9922	You'll have your downs but you'll have your sunny ones too; and that's the most you could hope for from life.
9923	You’ll hear him asking scientists to create a good painless gas they could use on the unfit.
9924	You’ll lose your credit rating and your personal reputation.
9925	You’ll practise digital art production and become well versed in the creative and critical aspects of game art, character and environment design, the underlying technology and the production pipeline.
9926	You’ll want to have sufficient effectiveness against maintain deal with.
9927	You look at Charlemagne who was the king who forced people to convert to Christianity by the sword, on orders of the Pope, as he took over countries and pushed Catholicism.
9928	You may or may not have noticed, but the EU is going through something of a rough patch at the… Do EU copyright laws need to be harmonised?
9929	• You may work either individually or in a team of four (maximum).
9930	;-) You might be tempted to ask now who the Heck is Hermes Holodides, well I had to learn that myself, not living in Germany anymore since many years.
9931	You might get a SWAT Team coming in.
9932	You might think about using the Researcher Development Framework (Vitae) to monitor and assess how your skills are developing.
9933	“You must be the change you want to see.
9934	You must hold an NVQ Level 3 in Children and Young People, have extensive experience working with children in a residential setting, and hold a full driving license with access to your own transport.
9935	You need JavaScript enabled to view it.) For general information about the InterLink project, see There are no articles in this category.
9936	Younger SNS users could thus be less concerned about the possible consequences of their online data disclosure, as they tend to concentrate more on the social rewards they receive when disclosing information with their online networks.
9937	Young Europeans make the decision to move from their home-countries in order to find qualified jobs that matches their studies and ways to “make ends meet” abroad.
9938	You only had nobility and masses, you see.
9939	Your access to and use of this Site is subject to the following Terms and Conditions and all applicable laws.
9940	Your association has a major role to play!
9941	Your can register here.
9942	Your carpets could get holes if the company is not using the kind of equipment for cleaning.
9943	Your contribution to this process is unquestionable.
9944	Your courses will include Property Law, Jurisprudence and European Union Law.
9945	You’re getting taught gradually – actually the acceleration is on now of course – to teach you that the old days are gone.
9946	You’re not supposed to.
9947	You’re supposed to pay compound interest and all this stuff too; it’s just astonishing.
9948	Your feedback will be much appreciated.
9949	Your mission is to cleanse this family home from the rat infestation.
9950	Your mission is to help Frank escape the secret lab where He was created.
9951	Your missunderstanding of economic principles is just astounding.
9952	Your modem's speed is measured in the number of bits it can transfer in a second.
9953	Your mom gave a nice chance to go shopping in order to get gr.
9954	Your nuwave oven complete cookbook english count should be divisible by 4. Install dstwo patch it is not, the printer adds enough blank pages to the back of your book to make the page count divisible by 4. Where find install dstwo patch?
9955	Your postcards will have that glossy look that is so hard to resist.
9956	Your rationale goes out the window.
9957	Your report also mentions the concept of “Brand Europe”.
9958	Your resource guide to assist in facilitating access to information such as International Standards (ISO), and other resourceful documents and downloads.
9959	Your secular democracy has become an inspiration for millions across Northern Africa and the Middle East seeking freedom from the authoritarian rule.
9960	Your shows have so much stuff.
9961	Your target audience profile requires demographic facts and figures accumulated through sales information, hakc any input you have received from surveys targeted toward consumers of your kinship patterns facts kids.
9962	Your video can include scenes of you out in the field and explaining an outcrop, or at the lab bench showing how to work out water chemistry; entries can also contain cartoons, animations (including stop motion), or music videos – you name it!
9963	You seem to be under the impression probably from comments on this blog and elsewhere that most people in Greece blame Germany for the horrible economic condition of the country.
9964	You should also have the ducts cleaned when you think that water has gotten through by way of leaking and by way of condensation.
9965	You should be more careful when expressing your “philosophical” POV’s… And a question to Mr.
9966	You should create the perfect hairstyle for this girl.
9967	You should critically assess all the information you receive while interacting with co-registrants who have already participated in sharing the cost of data.
9968	You should protect your CPU fro..
9969	You should see Sex Video with Flash Sex Movie Player here.
9970	You should still keep in mind that not everybody among the protestors are in favour of Ukraine being part of the EU.
9971	You understand, the world is run by big mafias, that’s all it is, big gangs of mafia.
9972	You understand, this is a slavery system.
9973	You’ve be surprised how our brains operate and how changes in our brains occur.
9974	You’ve got all the fish.) shows that we can have the benefits of European exports, without the costs of its diktats.
9975	You’ve got Czechoslovakian and Belgian and other troops coming and going.
9976	You’ve got it locked in!
9977	You’ve got to read the Charter.
9978	You’ve got to remember that so many people who are outright communists also went into these organizations when communism got a bad name and kind of fell away.
9979	You've got to understand that the CIA is tied in with this too, big time, and so is MI6 from Britain, and they guided the cultures, through the 50s, 60s, 70s, and 80s up to the present time.
9980	You’ve probably seen the buzz around our world premiere Yaris Hybrid-R concept.
9981	You've talked about how we live in a – I guess you use the term “pathocracy.”
9982	You want to link this page?
9983	You were a perfect gentleman whilst aunty beebs interviewer was rude and disingenuous.
9984	You will be able to log in with facebook or create a free account.
9985	You will be asked if you are sure that you wish to delete the message.
9986	You will be asked to select one or more streams when you submit a presentation proposal.
9987	You will be weighed and so on and fined if you are overweight.
9988	You will find an advanced technological environment for both your study and leisure time, with campus-wide wireless access to the internet and to the schools electronic resources.
9989	You will find here solved physics problems that use the derivatives and mathematics in physics.
9990	You will find information below about EU cohesion policy funds that are invested in Belgium and the results achieved.
9991	You will focus on architecture's shaping and accommodating of our communal life.
9992	You will have to get online to update the app.
9993	You will manage Wholesale and Cash & Carry customers.
9994	You will need first to hold an offer of admission to the programme before you apply for the bursary.
9995	You will probably expect me to say something about the more practical aspects of the problem, for you will naturally say «even if you are right in your statement of principle how can we proceed in practice?»
9996	You will receive an automated response from the Agency acknowledging receipt of your email.
9997	Yutao Sui, Ismail Guvenc, and Tommy Svensson presented their research at the 2014 5G for Ubiquitous Connectivity conference in Levi, Finland.
9998	ZAHÁJENÍ VÝSTAVY „NOVÁ TVÁŘ EURA“ V BANCO DE ESPAÑA This morning, the European Central Bank’s exhibition “The New Face of the Euro” was opened at the Banco de España's headquarters in Madrid.
9999	Z. A. Meierovica Bulv. 14, 2nd Floor In compliance with Article 23 of the BEREC Regulation the BEREC Office and its staff members enjoy all rights accorded to them by the Protocol № 7 on the Privileges and Immunities of the EU).
10000	Zikova 612/24, Olomouc-Nové Sady Přerovská 678/45, Olomouc-Holice We provide distribution and installation of gas.
